 
 
Initial Environmental Examination 
 
 
 
 
Document Stage: Draft  
Project Number: 49107-010 
April 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
India: Tamil Nadu Urban Flagship Investment Project 
(Tranche 3) – Underground Sewerage System for 
Added Areas of Coimbatore Corporation – Zone V 
(Vadavalli and Veerakeralam) [Wards 16 to 19]  and 
Zone VII (Kavundampalayam and Thudiyalur) [Wards 
1 (Part) 2 to 9 & 43 (Part)] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared by Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board on behalf of Coimbatore City 
Municipal Corporation of the Government of Tamil Nadu for the Asian Development Bank. 
 
---PAGE BREAK---

---PAGE BREAK---
 
 
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 
(as of 25 April 2022) 
Currency Unit – Indian rupee (₹) 
₹1.00 = $0.0131 
$1.00 = ₹76.464 
 
 
ABBREVIATIONS 
 
 ADB  – Asian Development Bank 
 ASI – Archaeological Survey of India 
 BOD – Biochemical Oxygen Demand 
 CBO – Community Based Organisation 
 CCMC – Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation 
 CMA – Commissionerate of Municipal Administration 
 CMSC – Construction Management and Supervision Consultant 
 CPCB  – Central Pollution Control Board 
 CTE  – Consent To Establish 
 CTO  – Consent To Operate 
 DBOT – Design Build Operate Transfer 
 DWC – double wall corrugated  
 EAC – Expert Appraisal Committee 
 EC – Environmental Clearance 
 EHS – Environmental Health and Safety 
 EIA  – Environmental Impact Assessment 
 ESS – Environmental and Social Safeguard 
 EMP  – Environmental Management Plan 
 GOI  – Government of India 
 GoTN – Government of Tamil Nadu 
 IEE  – Initial Environmental Examination  
 MOEFCC  – Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change 
 NGO – Non-Government Organisation 
 NOC  – No Objection Certificate 
 PIA – Project Implementing Agency 
 PIU  – Project Implementation Unit  
 PMU  – Project Management Unit  
 SPS  – Safeguard Policy Statement 
 STP – Sewage Treatment Plant 
 TNPCB  – Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board 
 TNUFIP – Tamil Nadu Urban Flagship Investment Program 
 TNUIFSL – Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Services Limited 
 TWADB  – Tamil Nadu Watersupply and Drainage Board 
 WHO – World Health Organization 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
 
 
 
 
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 
 
?C - Degree Celsius 
km - kilometer 
LPCD - liters per capita per day 
m - meter 
Mgd - million gallons per day  
MLD - million litres per day 
mm - millimeter 
nos - numbers 
km2 - square kilometer 
 m2 - square meter 
 
 
NOTE 
 
In this report, "$" refers to United States dollars. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This draft initial environmental examination is a document of the borrower. The views expressed 
herein do not necessarily represent those of ADB's Board of Directors, Management, or Staff, and 
may be preliminary in nature. Your attention is directed to the “terms of use” section o n ADB’s 
website. 
 
 
In preparing any country program or strategy, financing any project, or by making any designation 
of or reference to a particular territory or geographic area in this document, the Asian 
Development Bank does not intend to make any judgments as to the legal or other status of any 
territory or area. 
---PAGE BREAK---
 
 
CONTENTS 
Pages 
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                  i 
I. INTRODUCTION 1 
A. Background 1 
B. Purpose of this Initial Environmental Examination Report : 3 
C. Report Structure 3 
II. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT 5 
A. Project Area 5 
B. Existing Sewerage System : 5 
C. Proposed Project : 7 
D. Implementation Schedule : 23 
III. POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK 24 
A. ADB Policy 24 
B. National Environmental Laws : 24 
C. International Treaties/Conventions/Declarations on Environment Management 33 
IV. DESCRIPTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT 34 
A. Methodology Used for Baseline Study : 34 
B. Physical Resources : 34 
C. Ecological Resources 55 
D. Economic Development : 56 
E. Socio-Cultural Resources 60 
F. Sub-project Site Environmental Features : 63 
V. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES 92 
VI. ANTICIPATED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES : 94 
A. Pre-Construction Impacts – Design and Location : 95 
B. Construction Impacts 104 
C. Operation and Maintenance Impacts 120 
VII. PUBLIC CONSULTATION AND INFORMATION DISCLOSURE 125 
A. Overview 125 
B. Public Consultation 125 
a. Consultation during Project Preparation 125 
b. Consultation during construction 126 
C. Information Disclosure 126 
VIII. GRIEVANCE REDRESS MECHANISM 127 
IX. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN 130 
A. Environmental Management Plan 130 
B. Implementation Arrangements 175 
C. Training Needs 178 
D. Monitoring and Reporting 179 
---PAGE BREAK---
 
 
 
E. Environmental Management Plan Implementation Cost 180 
X. CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS 181 
 
LIST OF TABLES 
Table 2 (a): Proposed Underground Sewerage Scheme - Sewer System 7 
Table 2 (b): Proposed Underground Sewerage Scheme - STP 10 
Table 3: Applicable Environmental Regulations 25 
Table 4: Effluent Disposal Standards of Sewage Treatment Plants 26 
Table 5: Clearances and Permissions Required for Construction 27 
Table 6:National Ambient Air Quality Standards and WHO Guidelines 29 
Table 7: National Noise Standards and WHO Guidelines 31 
Table 8: National Drinking Water Quality Standards and WHO Guidelines 31 
Table 9: Standards for Composting as manure 32 
Table 10: International Treaties/ Conventions/ Declarations on Environment 33 
Table 11: Water Quality Data of Lakes, 2016 39 
Table 12 : Salient Features of Selvachinthamani Lake 42 
Table 13 : Water Quantity / Quality of Selvachinthamani Lake 43 
Table 14: Salient Features of Periyakulam Lake 43 
Table 15:Water Quantity / Quality of Periyakulam Lake 44 
Table 16: Values of Water Quality Parameter and Water Quality Index of River Noyyal Connected 
Ponds during Summer Season (2018) 47 
Table 17: Values of Water Quality Parameter and Water Quality Index of River Noyyal Connected 
Ponds during Rainy Season (2018) 47 
Table 18:Groundwater Quality 49 
Table 19: Annual Average Concentrations of Air Pollutants, 2018 -2019 49 
Table 20:Annual Average Concentrations of Air Pollutants, 2008 -2009 50 
Table 21:Annual Average Concentrations of Air Pollutants, 2009 -2010 50 
Table 22:Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Results of Coimbatore between 2012& 2020 51 
Table 23:Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Results of Coimbatore between 2012& 2020 52 
Table 24:Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Results of Coimbatore between 2012& 2020 53 
Table 26:Ambient Day-time Noise Levels in Coimbatore 54 
Table 27: Demographic Characteristics (2011 Census) 61 
Table 28: Site Environmental Features – Zone V (Vadavalli & Veerakeralam areas) 63 
Table 29 : Details of Land in Vadavalli & Veerakeralam Areas 81 
Table 30 : Details of Lift Station Land in Kavundampalayam, Thudiyalur & Vellakinar (Part) Areas
 85 
Table 31: Site Environmental Features–ZoneVII (Kavundampalayam & Thudiyalur) 89 
Table 32:Analysis of Alternatives 92 
Table 33: Standards for Sewage Treatement Plants(STPs) 95 
Table 34: Standards for Sludge Reuse as Manure 97 
---PAGE BREAK---
 
 
Table 35: Sewer Construction (Zone V) 105 
Table 36: Sewer Construction (Zone VII) 106 
Table 38: Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures - Sewage Treatment Plant 154 
Table 39: Environmental Monitoring Plan – Sewer System 170 
Table 40: Environmental Monitoring Plan – Sewage Treatment Plant 172 
Table 41: Outline Capacity Building Program on EMP Implementation 178 
Table 42: Cost Estimates to Implement the Environmental Management Plan 180 
LIST OF FIGURES 
Figure 1: Subproject Area 6 
Figure 2: Location of Subproject 7 
Figure 3: Location of Lifting  and  Pumping Stations (Zone V & VII) 11 
Figure 4: Location of Lifting  and  Pumping Stations (Zone V) 12 
Figure 5: Location of Lifting  and  Pumping Stations (Zone VII) 13 
Figure 6: Sewage Treatment Plant Site (Zone V) 14 
Figure 8: 16 
Figure 9: Sewage Treatment Plant and 1km radius 17 
Figure 10 a: Sewage Treatment Plant – Tentative Layout Map 19 
Figure 10 b: Sewage Treatment Plant – Tentative Layout Map 20 
Figure 11: Sewage Treatment Plant and Alignment of Outfall Sewer (Zone V) 21 
Figure 12: Sewage Treatment Plant and Alignment of Outfall Sewer (Zone VII) 22 
Figure 13: Geomorphology of Project Area 37 
 Figure 14: Annual Seasonal Rainfall in Project Area 38 
Figure 15: Monthly Max  and  Min Average Temperature in Project Area 38 
Figure 16: Location of 8 Lakes in Coimbatore Corporation 40 
Figure 17: Tanks and Anaicuts Connecting Noyyal River 40 
Figure 18: Connectivity of Lakes and Joining into River Noyyal 41 
Figure 19: Details of Selvachinthamani Lake 42 
Figure 20: Details of Periyakulam Lake 43 
Figure 21: Graphical Representation of WQP of River Noyyal Connected Ponds during Summer 
and Rainy Seasons – 2018 45 
Figure 22: Ground Water Prospects in Project Area 48 
Figure 23: Annual Average Concentrations of Air Pollutants 50 
Figure 24: Ambient Air Quality of Coimbatore 2012  to 2020 (Mixed Area) 52 
Figure 25: Ambient Air Quality of Coimbatore 2012  to 2020 (Industrial Area) 53 
Figure 26: Ambient Air Quality of Coimbatore 2012  to 2020 (Residential Area) 54 
Figure 27:Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History [SACON] 56 
Figure 28: Map Showing Proposed land use plan for CMC 2021 57 
Figure 29: Proposed land use for Coimbatore LPA 2021 58 
Figure 30: Map Showing Land Use and Land Cover in the Project Area 58 
Figure 31: Nearest Archaeological Survey of India Protected Monument 62 
---PAGE BREAK---
 
 
 
Figure 32 :Site Set out Plans – Zone V (Vadavalli & Veerakeralam) 69 
Figure 33 :Site Set out Plans – Zone V (Onnampalayam) 70 
Figure 34 :Site Set out Plans – Zone V (Near Sundaram palayam drainage crossing) 71 
Figure 35 :Site Set out Plans – Zone V (Sri Ram Gardens) 72 
Figure 36 :Site Set out Plans – Zone V (Vadavalli Stream Crossing) 73 
Figure 37 : Site Set out Plans – Zone V (Maharani Avenue) 74 
Figure 38 : Site Set out Plans – Zone V (GKS Avenue) 75 
Figure 39 : Site Set out Plans – Zone V (Maharani Avenue) 76 
Figure 40:Site Set out Plans – Zone VII (Siva Csatle) 77 
Figure 41:Site Set out Plans – Zone VII (Lakshmi Garden) 78 
Figure 42:Site Set out Plans – Zone VII (Easwaran Nagar) 79 
Figure 43:Site Set out Plans – Zone VII (Cheran Colony) 80 
Figure 44: Proposed TNUFIP Grievance Redress Mechanism 128 
LIST OF APPENDICES 
Appendix 1 : Rapid Environmental Assessment Checklist 184 
Appendix 2: Salient Features of Major Labor Laws Applicable to Est ablishments Engaged In 
Construction of Civil Works 189 
Appendix 3: Sample Outline Spoils (Construction Waste) Management Plan 191 
Appendix 4: Public Information Notice Template 192 
Appendix 5: Sample Grievance Registration Form 193 
Appendix 6: Sample Outline Traffic Management Plan 194 
Appendix 7: Sample Environmental Site Inspection Report 201 
Appendix 8: Semi-Annual Environmental Monitoring Report Template 203 
Appendix 9: Public Consultation Details 209 
Appendix 10: COVID - 19 Health & Safety Plan/ SOP          234 
Appendix 11: Mechnical Odour Control Devices           237 
---PAGE BREAK---

---PAGE BREAK---
 
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
 
The Tamil Nadu Urban Flagship Investment Program (TNUFIP) will advance India’s national 
urban flagship programs to develop priority urban and environmental infrastructure in ten cities 
located within strategic industrial corridors of Tamil Nadu (the State) , including those within the 
East Coast Economic Corridor (ECEC), to enhance environmental sustainability, climate 
resilience, and livability.  It will also strengthen the capacity of state and local institutions and 
improve urban governance. TNUFIP is ali gned with the following impact: urban livability and 
climate resilience in cities of economic importance improved.   TNUFIP will have the following 
outcomes: smart and climate resilient urban services delivered in ten cities in priority industrial 
corridors.  
 
The TNUFIP is structured under three outputs: (i) sewage collection and drainage improved and 
climate-friendly sewage treatment systems introduced, (ii) access to reliable and smart drinking 
water services improved, and (iii) Institutional capacity, public awareness, and urban governance 
strengthened. TNUFIP will be implemented over an 8-year period beginning in 2018, and will be 
funded by Asian Development Bank (ADB). via its multitranche financing facility (MFF).  
 
Tranches. TNUFIP MFF comprises of three tranches sequenced based on readiness, absorptive 
capacity, and logical progression of investments. Tranche 1 (Project 1), approved in September 
2018, is supporting water supply and sewerage facilities in six cities (Chennai,  Coimbatore, 
Rajapalayam, Tiruchirappalli, Tirunelveli, and Vellore), capacity development of the DMA and 
ULBs and improvement in urban governance and financial management in all 135 ULBs. A 
transactional technical assistance approved in 2018 will strengthen capacity of the DMA to better 
support ULBs in preparing urban infrastructure projects and implement urban governance 
improvement programs. Tranche 2 (Project 2), approved in November 2019, is supporting water 
supply and sewerage facilities in five citie s (Ambur, Madurai, Tiruchirappalli, Tiruppur, and 
Vellore) and facilitating reforms for improved service delivery and innovation in the program ULBs. 
A periodic financing request for the third last tranche under the TNUFIP MFF is submitted to ADB 
and is under processing.  Tranche 3 (Project 3) will support water supply in Madurai, sewerage in 
Coimbatore and storm water drainage in Thoothukudi.  
 
The Subproject. Coimbatore, located in the central western part of Tamil Nadu, is second largest 
city in the state after capital Chennai. In  this subproject to be implemented under the ADB funded 
TNUFIP,  it is proposed to provide underground sewerage system in added areas ( Zone V 
(Vadavalli & Veerakeralam) and Zone VII (Kavundampalayam & Thudiyalur)) of Coimbatore City 
Municipal Corporation (CCMC). These areas are located in the western/ northern outskirts of the 
city. Subproject includes the following civil works components: (i) sewer network ( 528.557  
kilometre (km) length of sewers and20,079  No. of Manholes), (ii) 10No. of Lift Stations, (iii)4 Nos. 
of Sub-pumping / Main-pumping Station, (iv) Pumping Mains (14.070 km), (v) 2 Nos. of Sewage 
Treatment Plant (STP) of 15.43 Million Litres per Day (MLD) and 19.49 MLD capacityrespectively 
and (vi) 71,778 House Service Connections. This subproject is split into three contract packages 
for implementation: (i) sewer system in Zone 5, (ii) sewer system in Zone 7, and (iii) two STPs. 
Sewer system packages are of ‘Works’ type contract while STP contract is of Design-Build-
Operate (DBO) modality, where in which contractor will design STP, build and operate for a 
duration agreed in the contract. 
 
Project implementation arrangements. The Municipal Administration and Water Supply 
Department (MAWS) of GoTN acting th rough the Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial 
Services Limited (TNUIFSL) is the state -level executing agency. A Project Management Unit 
(PMU) is established in TNUIFSL  which is headed by a Project Director and  Deputy Project 
---PAGE BREAK---
ii 
 
 
Director (senior official from Commissionerate of Municipal Administration, CMA), and comprising 
dedicated full -time staff from TNUIFSL for overall project and financial management. The 
beneficiary of this project is Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation (CCMC). CCMC is the Project 
Implementing Agency (PIA) for this subproject. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is established 
in Tamilnadu Water supply and Drainage Board (TWAD Board) which is headed by a full -time 
Project Manager (Executive Engineer or above) and comprising dedicated full -time staff of the 
TWAD Board f or day -to-day implementation of the subproject.  Environmental and Social 
Safeguards (ESS) Managers in PMU/TNUIFSL will coordinate all the safeguard related activities 
of the subproject and will ensure the compliance with Environmental Management Plan (EMP) 
and Environmental Assessment and Review Framework (EARF).  Environmental Expert  
(Environmental Engineers in TWAD Board) will ens ure implementation of subproject in 
compliance with EMP and EARF, and will carry out all necessary tasks at PIU level.  At the 
contractor’s level, the EHS personnelwill carryout necessary actions in the site to ensure 
compliance to EMP and EARF requirements. 
 
Screening and assessment of potential impacts . ADB requires the consideration of 
environmental issues in all aspects of the Bank’s operations, and the requirements for 
environmental assessment are described in ADB’s Safeguard Policy Statement (SPS), 2009. As 
per the Government of India (GOI ) Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2006, 
this subproject does  not require EIA study or environmental clearance (EC). For the STP sub -
component, the consent to establish would be obtained prior to comm encement of works from 
the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board 1. The potential environmental impacts of the subproject 
have been assessed using ADB Rapid Environmental Assessment Checklist for Sewerage  and 
accordingly the potential negative impacts were identified in relation to pre -construction, 
construction and operation. 
 
Categorisation. Based on the outcome of the assessment and ADB Safeguard Policy Statement 
(SPS) 2009, the subproject is classified as environmental Category B, i.e., subproject potential 
adverse environmental impacts are less adverse than those of category A, and are site -specific, 
and in most cases mitigation measures can be designed more readily than for category A projects. 
For category “B” projects an initial environmental examination (IEE) is required. 
 
Description of the Environment. The subproject components are located in Vadavalli (16 & 17 
wards) & Veerakeralam (18 & 19 wards) areas in the western suburbs and Kavundamapalayam 
(5 to 9 wards) & Thudiyalur (1(Pt), 2 to 4 & 43(Pt) wards) areas in North -western part of 
Coimbatore City. Vadavalli, Veeraleralam and Thudiyalur are erstwhile Town panchayats and 
Kavundampalayam is erstwhile Municipality, added to Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation in 
2011. Vadavalli & Veerakeralam areas are located on Coimbatore – Maruthamalai & Coimbatore 
– Anaikatti Roads. Veerakeralam is a suburb of Coimbatore City located 7 km from the main city.  
The wards in Vadavalli & Veera keralam (16 to 19 ) are rapidly growing in terms of settlement, 
Industries and Institutions. Kavundampalayam & Thudiyalur areas are situated on either side of 
the Mettuppalayam Road, which is leading to Ooty, called as Queen of Hills, familiar tourism 
centre possessing botanical garden, lakes, etc.,. Coimbatore district forms part of upland plateau 
region of Tamil Nadu with many hill ranges, hillocks and undulating topography with a gentle slope 
towards east except for the hilly terrain in the west. Vadavalli, Veeraleralam, Kavundampalayam 
and Thudiyalur areas have a predominantly plain terrain interspersed by Noyyal River and 
numerous water bodies. Generally, a sub -tropical climatic condition prevails in this area with 
average maximum and minimum temperature in the range of 36 oC to 41 oC and 14 oC to 25 oC 
 
 
1The Consent to Operate the STP would be obtained from TNPCB prior to commissioning of the STP. 
---PAGE BREAK---
iii 
 
 
respectively. The average annual rainfall is 940 mm (for last 10 years), and most of the rain is 
received during south-west and north-east monsoon seasons. Proposed sub project components 
are located within the urban area of Vadavalli and Veeraleralam, exceptone of the STP site, which 
is located in the adjoining wards of 15, 20 & 21(Chokkampudur and Ponniyarajapuram areas). In 
Kavundampalayam & Thudiyalur areas, proposed sub project components are located within the 
urban area itself. Sewers will be under the public roads, pumping stations are located on small 
government vacant land parcels in the project area, and the STP site are allotted and earmarked 
in the F.M.Sketch by the CM CC along with their enter upon permission (Lr.No.UGSS to added 
areas of Cbe Corpn/2017/MH.5/dt.23.7.2020 of The Commissioner, Coimbatore Corporation, 
Coimbatore-1) copy annexed in the land particulars. The allotted sites are vacant, and away from 
habitations. It is proposed to dispose the treated effluent of Vadavalli & Veerakeralam areas into 
the outlet stream of Kumarasamy Lake which flows to Selva Chinthamani Kulam and thereon to 
Periyakulam at Ukkadam  and has its final  outfall into the River Noyyal .The treated effluent of 
Kavundampalayam & Thudiyalur areas will be discharged to Sanganur pallam stream, leading to 
River Noyyal, which is about 11.48 kms from the site.  As all the subproject components are 
located within or  adjoining an urban area, there are no sensitive environmental features like  
forests. The nearest sensitive location is the Western Ghats, which is located at a distance of  5 
km away from the beginning subproject area of Vadavalli.  There are 4 water bodies  in the 
subproject areas (Narasampathi, Krishnampathi, Selvampathy & Kumaraswamy Lakes) and they 
are seasonal. 
 
Potential Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures. The subproject is unlikely to cause 
significant adverse impacts that are irreversible, diverse or unprecedented because : (i) the 
components will involve straightforward construction and operation, so impacts will be mainly 
localized; (ii) there are no significant sensitive environmental features in the project sites, although 
careful attention needs to be paid to minimizing disruption to population of urban area and (iii) 
predicted impacts are site-specific and likely to be associated with the construction pro cess and 
are produced because the process is invasive, involving excavation and earth movements along 
the alignment and controlled blasting in some stretches of the alignment and PS/STP sites.  
 
Sewerage system performs a crucial function of safely collect ing, transporting, treating and 
disposing domestic wastewater  including human excreta (designed as a separate system). 
Subproject is likely to have numerous positive impacts on the environment and public health. In 
this IEE, negative impacts were identifie d in relation to pre -construction, cons truction, and 
operation phases. Planning principles and design considerations have been reviewed and 
incorporated into the site planning and design process wherever possible; thus, environmental 
impacts as being due to the project design or location were not significant. Sewage pumping and 
lifting stations, which collect sewage to further pump to a higher elevation manhole, pump station 
or STP, are likely to generate odo ur. Although, utmost care is taken to locate thes e away from 
the houses, due to design considerations and land constraints, some sites are located close to 
the houses. Appropriate odour mitigation measures have been proposed in the sub -project. 
Further C onsultations as necessary would be carried outto  explain about the uninterrupted 
pumping without storage of sewage and provisions towards mitigating the odour. 
 
Sewage treatment facility would be designed to meet the preset disposal standards notified by 
CPCB/TNPCB for disposal of treated wastewater from STP. The treated sewage effluent from 
Zone-5 would be disposed into the outlet stream of Kumarasamy Lake  which flows to Selva 
Chinthamani Kulam and thereon to Periyakulam at Ukkadam which has its final outfall into the 
River Noyyal and from Zone-7 the treated wastewater will be discharged to Sanganur pallam 
stream,leading to River Noyyal. Except monsoon seasons, River Noyyal  carries wastewater from 
the villages and urban areas it flows through. It ultimately meets River Cauvery at Village Noyyal 
---PAGE BREAK---
iv 
 
 
in Karur District, over 100 km east of Coimbatore. With the implementation of subproject, disposal 
of untreated wastewater from Vadavalli, Veerakeralam, Kavundampalayam and Thudiyalur areas 
(subproject areas) will be prevented, and also treated wastewater will be disposed into River 
Noyyal. This will infact improve the water quality, and therefore no adverse impacts e nvisaged. 
Another impact is that of STP operation from malfunction or decrease in treatment efficiency and 
sludge handling and disposal. This will result in release of untreated or partially treated 
wastewater that will pollute environment and cause public  health issues.  From the site 
observations, there are pumpset manufacturing industries and other engineering industries are 
located in the added zones , which are not intended to let the industrial waste into this network . 
Accumulation of silt in sewers in a reas of low over time, overflows, blockages, power outages, 
harmful working conditions for the workers cleaning sewers etc. may create nuisance, unhealthy 
and hazardous conditions. 
 
Mitigation measures have been developed to reduce all negative impacts to acceptable levels. 
These were discussed with specialists responsible for the engineering aspects, and as a result 
significant measures have already been included in the designs for the infrastructure. Various 
measures suggested for odo ur control including: appropriately locating sewage wells within site 
as far as away from the houses;  developing tree cover; covered facilities; gas collection and 
treatment facilities, and design  and  operation measures to prevent odo ur build up; Standard 
Operating Procedures(SOP’s) for operation and maintenance; imparting necessary training; 
safety and personal protection equipment for workers, measures to maintain the STP treatment 
efficiency, and development of green buffer zone around the STP s etc.,Apart from green belt 
provision, mechanical odour control device has also been proposed in the Lift / Pumping / Main 
Pumping Stations. 
 
Potential impacts during construction are considered significant but temporary, and are common 
impacts of construction in urban are as, and there are well developed methods to mitigate the 
same. Except sewer works, all other construction activities (lifting/pumping stations and STP) will 
be confined to the selected sites and the interference with the general public and community 
around is minimal. In these works, the temporary negative impacts arise mainly from construction 
dust and noise, hauling of construction material, from the existing government licensed mining 
areas, waste and equipment on local roads (traffic, dust, safety etc., ), mining of construction 
material, occupation health and safety aspects. Sewer works will be conducted along public roads 
in an urban area congested with people, activities and traffic. Therefore these works will have 
significant impacts arising mainly from the disturbance of residents, businesses and traffic due to 
construction work; safety risk to workers, public and nearby buildings due to deep trench 
excavations in the road, especially in narrow roads; with STP sites involving controlled blasing,  
access impediment to houses and business, disposal of  large quantities of construction waste, 
etc. These are all general impacts of construction in urban areas, and there are well developed 
methods of mitigation that are suggested in the EMP.  
 
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) . An EMP has been developed to provide mitigation 
measures to reduce all negative impacts to acceptable levels, along with the delegation of 
responsibility to appropriate agency. As stated above, various design related measures are 
already included in the project design. During construction, the EMP includes mitigation measures 
such as (i) proper planning of sewer works to minimize the public inconvenience (ii) barricading, 
dust suppression and control measures (iii) traffic management measures for works alon g the 
roads and for hauling activities; (iv) provision of walkways and planks over trenches to ensure 
access will not be impeded and (iv) finding beneficial use of excavated materials to extent possible 
to reduce the disposal quantity.  Hard rock removal through controlled blasting for excavation, in 
case encountered, for some sections of the pipeline alignment and in the pumping station sites  
---PAGE BREAK---
v 
 
 
and STP site. Mitigation measures to ensure safety of humans and structures within the area of 
influence and impacts due to controlled blasting during the implementation have been included in 
the EMP. The EMP will guide the environmentally sound construction of the subproject. The EMP 
also includes a monitoring program to measure the effectiveness of EMP implementation and 
include observations on -and-off-site, document checks, and interviews with workers and 
beneficiaries. 
 
The EMP will be  included in the bid and contract documents to ensure compliance with the 
conditions set out in this document. The contractor will be required to submit to PIU, for review 
and approval, a Site E nvironmental Management Plan (SEMP) including (i) proposed 
sites/locations for construction work camps, storage areas, hauling roads, lay down areas, 
disposal areas for solid and hazardous wastes;  (ii) specific mitigation measures following the 
approved EMP; (iii) reflecting the associated mitigation and monitoring measures for the 
controlled blasting activities and (iv) monitoring program as per EMP. No works are allowed to 
commence prior to appro val of SEMP.  A copy of the EMP/approved SEMP will be kept on site 
during the construction period at all times.  
 
Consultation, Disclosure and Grievance Redress Mechanism. The stakeholders were 
involved in developing the IEE through discussions on-site and a public consultation workshop at 
city level, after which , views expressed were incorporated into the IEE and in the planning and 
development of the project. The IEE will be made available at public locations and will be 
disclosed to a wider au dience via the ADB, CCMC and TNUIFSL websites  following ADB SPS 
and Access to Information Policy 2018. The consultation process will be continued during project 
implementation. A grievance redress mechanism is described within the IEE to ensure any public 
grievances are addressed quickly.  GRM includes provisions for complainants to register 
complaints, and receive feedback, via phone, emails etc. remotely and safely, which is suitable in 
the current COVID-19 pandemic also. 
 
Monitoring and Reporting. Contractor will submit a monthly EMP implementation report to PIU. 
PIUwill monitor the compliance of Contractor, prepare a Quarterly Environmental Monitoring 
Report and submit to PMU. The PMU  will oversee the implementation and compliance, and will 
submit environmental monitoring reports to ADB, semiannually during construction and annually 
during operation, until a project completion report (PCR) is issued by ADB. Following ADB’s SPS 
2009 and Access to Information Policy, 2018, environmental monitoring reports will be publicly 
disclosed.. ADB will post the environmental monitoring reports on its website. Monitoring reports 
will also be posted on CCMC and TNUIFSL websites 
 
Conclusions and Recommendations. Therefore, as per ADB SPS, the project is classified as 
environmental category ‘B’ and does not require further Environmental Impact Assessment. 
However, to conform to government guidelines STP requires Consent to Establish (CTE) and 
Consent to Operate (CTO) from Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), which shall be 
obtained for the 2 proposed STPs ((i) At Chokkampudur and (ii) At Kavundampalayam) prior to 
construction and operation. In addition, before commissioning of the scheme, permission will be 
obtained from the CCMC for letting the treated effulent into the existing surplus streamof 
Kumaraswamy lake leading to Selvachinthamani Lake & Periyakulam and from PWD  for letting 
the treated effulent into the River Noyyal. This draft IEE will be updated during the detailed design 
phase of STP, and if required further during the implementation to reflect any changes in sewer 
system or STPs. Updated IEE will be submitted to ADB for review, clearance and disclosure. 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---

---PAGE BREAK---
 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
A. Background 
1. The Tamil Nadu Urban Flagship Investment Program (TNUFIP)  will advance India’s 
National Urban Flagship Programs  to develop priority urban and environmental infrastructure in 
ten cities located within strategic  industrial corridors of Tamil Nadu (the State) , including those 
within the  East Coast Economic Corridor (ECEC), to enhance environmental sustainability, 
climate resilience, and livability.  It will also strengthen the capacity of state and local institutions 
and improve urban governance. 
 
2. TNUFIP will be implemented over an 8 -year period beginning in 2018, and will be funded 
by Asian Development Bank (ADB) via its Multi-tranche Financing Facility (MFF). The Executing 
Agency is the Department of Municipal Administration and Water Supply (MAWS) of the Sta te 
acting through the Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Services Limited (TNUIFSL) who 
has established a Program Management Unit (PMU). The Thoothukudi City Municipal Corporation 
(TCMC) will be the Project Implementing Agency (PIA) of this sub -project and a Project 
Implementing Unit (PIU) will be established within the TCMC for executing the subproject. 
 
3. Tranches. TNUFIP MFF comprises of three tranches sequenced based on readiness, 
absorptive capacity, and logical progression of investments. Tranche  1 (Project 1), approved in 
September 2018, is supporting water supply and sewerage facilities in six cities (Chennai, 
Coimbatore, Rajapalayam, Tiruchirappalli, Tirunelveli, and Vellore), capacity development of the 
DMA and ULBs and improvement in urban go vernance and financial management in all 135 
ULBs. A transactional technical assistance approved in 2018 will strengthen capacity of the DMA 
to better support ULBs in preparing urban infrastructure projects and implement urban 
governance improvement progra ms. Tranche 2 (Project 2), approved in November 2019, is 
supporting water supply and sewerage facilities in five cities (Ambur, Madurai, Tiruchirappalli, 
Tiruppur, and Vellore) and facilitating reforms for improved service delivery and innovation in the 
program ULBs. A periodic financing request for the third last tranche under the TNUFIP MFF is 
submitted to ADB and is under processing.  Tranche 3 (Project 3) will support water supply in 
Madurai, sewerage in Coimbatore and storm water drainage in Thoothukudi.  
 
4. TNUFIP Project 3 is aligned with the following impacts: (i) universal access to basic water 
and sanitation services achieved; (ii) “world-class” cities and industrial corridors across the state 
developed; and (iii) water security, reduced vulnerability to climate change in urban areas 
achieved. Project 3 will have the following outcome: livability and climate resilience in selected 
cities in priority industrial corridors enhanced. Outputs of the Project 3 are: 
 
(i) Output 1 : Climate -resilient s ewage collection and treatment, and drainage 
systems developed in two cities. Sewerage works in Coimbatore include: (i) two 
new STPs with a combined treatment capacity of 34.92 million liters per day (MLD) 
constructed (zone 5: 15.43 MLD, zone 7: 19.49 MLD) ; (ii) 529 km of new sewage 
collection pipelines constructed (zone 5: 230 .2km, zone 7: 298 .9km) with 100% 
households connected (Total 67,545 households - zone 5: 24,969, zone 7: 
42,576); (iii) 14 pump/lift stations (combined capacity of 348 kW) constructed (zone 
5: 9 and 108 kW, zone 7: 5 and 240 kW); and (iv) 14.2 km of sewage pumping 
mains built (zone 5: 9.8 km, zone 7: 4.4 km). Climate-resilient stormwater drainage 
systems (36.3 km of tertiary drains and enhancement of an existing stormwater 
pump station) will be established in Thoothukudi. In Coimbatore and Madurai, two 
---PAGE BREAK---
2 
 
 
all-female self -help gr oups (one in each city) will be trained on benefits of 
household connection to sewage collection system, water conservation, sanitation, 
health and hygiene and in areas of leadership. 
 
(ii) Output 2: Water supply system in one city improved with smart features. Works in 
Madurai include: (i) 813 km of new distribution pipelines commissioned with 100% 
households connected (163,958 households) in 115 newly established district 
metering areas with smart water features to reduce nonrevenue water; and (ii) 15 
booster pumps (combined capacity of 70 kW) constructed. 
 
(iii) Output 3: Institutional capacity, public awareness, and urban governance 
strengthened. This output includes targets to improve awareness of students, 
teachers and women’s groups on water conservation and hyg iene and develop 
capacity of stakeholders on gender mainstreaming in urban governance. The 
governance improvement and awareness consultants engaged under Project 1 for 
the program will continue to support output 3 under Project 3. 
 
5. Scope of the subproject. Coimbatore located in the central western part of Tamil Nadu is 
second largest city in the state after capital Chennai  and It is an industrial hub. Existing 
underground sewerage system covers the core area of Coimbatore City. The city limits were 
expanded in the year 2011 and surrounding municipalities, town panchayats and villages were 
added, increased the area from 105.60 Sq.Km to 257.04 Sq.Km. At present there is no sewerage 
system in these added areas (comprising of 40 wards) and it is proposed to provide Under Ground 
Sewerage System in 14 wards, comprising erstwhile Vadavalli, Veerakeralam & Thudiyalur Town 
Panchyats and erstwhile Kavundampalayam Municipality. U nder TNUFIP(T3), 12 wards and 2 
wards (Pt)  out of 40 new wards [(i)16 & 17 wards from erstwhile Vadavalli TP and 18 & 19 wards 
from erstwhile Veerakeralam TP under Zone V and (ii) 5 -9 wards from erstwhile 
Kavundampalayam Municipality and 1(Pt), 2 – 4 wards from erstwhile Thudiyulur TP and 43(Pt) 
ward from erstwhile Vellakinaru TP under Zone VII] are taken up for provision of comprehensive 
Under Ground Sewerage System (UGSS). The proposed project interventions are given in the 
following table. 
 
Table 1: Proposed Sewerage Subproject Components (Overall Abstract) 
Sl. 
No. Infrastructure Components 
Zone 5 
(Vadavalli 
&Veerakeralam) 
(4 wards) 
Zone 7 
Kavundampalayam, 
Thudiyalur & 
Vellakinaru (Pt) 
(8 + 2(Pt) wards) 
(i) Sewer Network 200-700 mm DWC / CI Pipes 230.233 km 298.944 km 
(ii) Manholes (Brick-11229+ RCC-7418 + Pre cast RCC - 
1401 = 20048) 
5203 + 3158 
+376 = 8737 
6206 +4260+ 1025 
= 11491 
(iii) Pumping Mains 150-600 mm CI Pipes 9.81 km - 
  150-700 mm CI Pipes - 4.40 km 
(iv) Main Pump Station 1 1 
 Sub-Pump Station 1 1 
(v) Lift Station 7 3 
(vi) Lift Manholes 1 12 
(vii) STP 15.43 MLD 19.49 MLD 
(vii) Outfall 
Sewer 
600 mm  CI Pipe (into the outlet stream of 
Kumarasamy Lake which flows to Selva 1.50 km - 
---PAGE BREAK---
3 
 
 
Sl. 
No. Infrastructure Components 
Zone 5 
(Vadavalli 
&Veerakeralam) 
(4 wards) 
Zone 7 
Kavundampalayam, 
Thudiyalur & 
Vellakinaru (Pt) 
(8 + 2(Pt) wards) 
Chinthamani Kulam and thereon to 
Periyakulam at Ukkadam) 
  600 mm  CI Pipe (into Sanganur Pallam 
Stream leading to River Noyyal) - 0.50 km 
(ix) House Service Connections 24969 No. 42576 No. 
 
6. Together the Zones 5 and 7 includes : (i) Sewer network to a length of 528.557 kilometres 
and 20,079 No. of Manholes; (ii) 13 No. of Lift Manholes, 10 No. of Lift Stations, 2 No. of Sub-
Pump Station and 2 No. of Main Pump Station; (iii) pumping mains ( 14.070 km); (iv) 2 No. of 
Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) of 15.43 million litres per day (MLD) and 19.49 MLD capacities 
and (v) 71,778 house service connections. 
 
B. Purpose of this Initial Environmental Examination Report : 
7. ADB requires the consideration of environmental issues in all aspects of the Bank’s 
operations, and the requirements for environmental assessment are described in ADB’s 
Safeguard Policy Statement (SPS), 2009. The potential environmental impacts of the subproject 
have been assessed using ADB Rapid Environmental Assessment (REA) Checklist for Sewerage 
(Appendix 1)  accordingly, the  potential negative impacts were identified in relation to pre -
construction, construction and operation of the improved infrastructure, and results of the 
assessment show that the subproject is unlikely to cause significant adverse impacts that are 
irreversible, divers e or unprecedented. Thus, this I nitial Environmental Examination (IEE) has 
been prepared in accordance with ADB SPS’s requirements for environment category B projects. 
 
8. This IEE report is based on the Detailed Project Report (DPR) prepared by TWAD Board 
for Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation (CCMC), adding  to reflect the inclusion of controlled 
blasting as one  of the construction methodologies, in  case if any encountered in due course of 
implementation. However the STP and disposal system is proposed under Design -Build-
Operation-Transfer (DBOT) Type implementation. The IEE was based mainly on field 
reconnaissance surveys and secondary sources of information. Nofield monitoring 
(environmental) survey was conducted, however, the environmental monitoring program 
developed as part of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will require the contractors to 
establish the baseline environmental conditions prior to commencement of civil works. The results 
will be reported as part of the environmental monitoring reports submitted to ADB (semi-annually 
during construction, and annually during operation, until a project completion report is issued by 
ADB) and will be the basis to ensure no degradation will happen during subproject 
implementation. Stakeholder consultation was an integral part of the IEE.  This draft IEE will be 
updated during the detailed design phase of STP, and if required further updation can be done 
during the implementation to reflect any changes in sewer system or STPs. Updated IEE will be 
submitted to ADB for review, clearance and disclosure. 
 
C. Report Structure 
9. This Report contains the following ten (10) sections including the executive summary at the 
beginning of the report:  
(i) Executive summary;  
---PAGE BREAK---
4 
 
 
(ii) Introduction; 
(iii) Description of the project; 
(iv) Policy, legal and administrative framework; 
(v) Description of the environment;  
(vi) Anticipated environmental impacts and mitigation measures;  
(vii) Public consultation and information disclosure;  
(viii) Grievance redress mechanism;  
(ix) Environmental management plan; and  
(x) Conclusion and recommendation. 
---PAGE BREAK---
5 
 
II. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT 
A. Project Area 
10. Project area comprises 14 municipal wards located in the western and northern outskirts 
of Coimbatore City, in Coimbatore District in the central western part of Tamil Nadu State (Figure 
1). These areas were originally part of three town panchayats – Vadavalli, Veerakeralam and 
Thudiyalur and one municipality - Kavundampalayam which were added to Coimbatore City 
Corporation limit in 2011. Total population of subproject area is 1,81,803(2011 census) and has 
a geographical area of 13 Square Kilometer(Sq.Km), 5.8 Sq.Km, 8.7 Sq .Km and 10.5 Sq .Km 
respectively. 
 
B. Existing Sewerage System : 
11. The existing underground sewerage system covers almost entire area of Coimbatore City 
Corporation limit prior to its expansion in 2011. This area is divided into 3 sewerage zones with 
respect to sewage treatment works.  Zone-I forms the heart of the city and the sewage from this 
Zone (20.143 MLD) is pumped to the anaerobic lagoon STP at Vellalore.  Zone-II comprises 
original Corporation limits in North and West. Sewage collected from Zone-II (16.62 MLD) is also 
pumped to the anae robic lagoon at Vellalore. Z one-III covers Tatabad, Sivana nda C olony, 
Gandhipuram, Sidthapu dur, Puli yakulam, Trichy R oad and Ram anathapuram areas. Sewage 
from Zone-III (23.625 MLD) is pretreated at Nanjundapuram Pumping Station and pumped to 
anaerobic lagoon at Vellalore. To cover th e uncovered area in the old city corporation limit, a 
project is being implemented under  a centrally sponsored scheme. Old Corporation area is 
divided into eight (sewer network) zones, and the work is taken up in all zones to cover the 
uncovered areas with  2010 as base year and 2040 as ultimate design year. Sewer collection 
system works have been completed in Zones 1, 2,3,5,6 and 7.Of 3 STPs,  2 STPs (at Ukkadam 
and at Ondipudur) have been completed, and the third one at Nanjundapuram which was held up 
due to litigation, now received clearance from court to proceed with the work, and will be 
completed soon. 
 
12. In 2011, government through a notification included 3 municipalities (Kurichi, Kuniamuthur 
and Kavundampalayam) and 7 Town Panchayats (Chinnavedampatty, Kalapatti, Saravanampatti, 
Vellakinaru, Thudiyalur, Vadavalli, and Veerakeralam) and a village panchayat (Vilankurichi) in 
the Coimbatore Corporation limits, increasing the corporation area from 105.60Sq.Km to 257.04 
Sq.Km. Municipal wards reorganised and increase d from 72 to 100, with newly added areas 
constituting 40 wards. 
 
13. At present there is an execution of underground sewerage scheme is in progress in the 
added areas of Kurichi & Kuniyamuthur (wards 87 to 100), located in southern outs kirts of the 
city. This ongoing scheme comprising of (i) sewer network (435.19 kilometre (km) length of sewers 
and 17,748 No. ofManholes), (ii) 19 Nos. of Lift Stations, (iii) 5 Nos. of Lift Manholes, (iv) 11 Nos. 
of pump stations (including 4 main pumping stations) (v) pumping mains (42.985 km), (vi) sewage 
treatment plant (STP) of 30.53 million litres per day (MLD) capacity, (vii) 2 megawatt (MW) photo 
voltaic solar power plant at STP site, and (viii) 69,668house service connections. 
 
14. In the 4 added areas covered in this present subproject, road side drains are carrying both 
the sullage and the rain water.  About 2/3rd of the houses have septic tanks.  The houses in the 
slum areas do not have latrines and depend on community toilets and open spaces. Drains  
carrying wastewater join water bodies (Krishnampathy, Narasampathy, Selvampathy, 
---PAGE BREAK---
6 
 
 
Kumarsamy,Selvasinthamani, Periakulam and finally leading to River Noyyal) around the city. 
Overflowing of drains during rainy, water pooling in low lying areas is not uncommon, creating 
unhealthy conditions. 
 
15. In the present subproject it is proposed to provide underground sewerage system in 14 of 
40 wards in added area, and 2 Nos. of STP s. These wards (16-19) comprise Zone-V. Wards 16 
& 17 comprise the erstwhile Vadavalli Town panchayat. Wards 18 & 19 comprise the erstwhile 
Veerakeralam Town panchayat. Wards 1(Part), 2 to 9 & 43(Part) under Zone-VII, wherein, 1 to 4 
wards of Thudiyalur area and 5 to 9 & 43 of Kavundamapalayam area. Due to lack of sewerage 
system at present, wastewater from houses flow in the open drains, which dispose into the lakes 
viz., Narasampathi, Krishnampathi, Selvampathy, Kumaraswamy, Selva Chinthamani, 
Periyakulam lakes andSanganur pallam stream and finally leading to River Noyyal, polluting them. 
 
16. Although,  Detailed  Project  Report  for  the  underground  sewage scheme in Vadavalli, 
Veerakeralam, Kavundampalayam and Thudiyalur has been prepared by Tamil Nadu Wate r 
Supply and Drainage (TWAD) Board, Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation (CCMC) is the 
responsible agency for providing basic urban services including sewerage in the City, and is the 
implementation agency for this subproject. 
 
Figure 1: Subproject Area 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thudiyalur
Vellakinar
Chinna
Saravanampatti
Vilankurichi
Kalapatti
Vadavalli
Veerakeralam
Kuniyamuthur
Goundampalayam
 Kurichi
Old Corporation
vedampatti
Project Area 
4 Added Areas 
---PAGE BREAK---
7 
 
 
Figure 2: Location of Subproject 
 
 
C. Proposed Project : 
17. Following Table shows the nature and size of the various components of the subproject. 
Location of subproject components and conceptual layout plans are shown in Figure 3 to Figure 
12. System is designed as a separate underground system catering only to domestic wastewater; 
storm runoff generated during rains will be carried by existing open drains and dispose into natural 
streams/ water bodies.  Industrial wastewater will not be dispose d into sewers. System is 
designed for 115 liters per capital per day, based on sewage generation rate of 80% of water 
supply. System is designed with gravity flow as far as possible, however topography do not permit 
a complete gravity system from collectio n to inlet at the STP, and therefore wherever required 
sewage lifting and pumping stations introduced to optimize the system design. 
 
Table 2 (a): Proposed Underground Sewerage Scheme - Sewer System 
Infrastructure Function Description Location 
Sewer Network 
Collected waste 
water from houses 
and conveyed by a 
combination of 
gravity and pressure 
pumping to STP 
New–528.557km (230.233+298.324) 
150mmUPVC : 2 km; 200 –300 mm dia : 
DWC (Double Wall Corrugated) Pipes –
436.964 km; 200 –700 mm dia : CI(Cast 
Iron)Pipes–89.593 km. 
Sewers will be laid underground in 
the roads and internal streets in the 
project area comprising 
Vadavalli,Veerakeralam, 
Kavundampalayam and Thudiyalur 
in the westernand northernoutskirts 
of Coimbatore City. 
Dia(mm) Material Length(m) % 
150 UPVC 2,000 0.38% 
200 DWC 4,28,656 81.10% 
250 DWC 4,806 0.91% 
300 DWC 3,502 0.66% 
200 CI 49,694 9.40% 
250 CI 4,901 0.93% 
300 CI 3,196 0.60% 
Coimbatore City 
Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Map 
Tamil Nadu 
Project Area 
Zone-
VIIGoundampalay
am&Thudiyalur 
Project Area 
Zone-V 
Vadavalli & 
Veerakeralam 
---PAGE BREAK---
8 
 
 
Infrastructure Function Description Location 
350 CI 3,960 0.75% 
400 CI 4,304 0.81% 
450 CI 3,576 0.68% 
500 CI 6,473 1.22% 
600 CI 2,626 0.50% 
700 CI 10,863 2.06% 
TOTAL 5,28,557 100% 
Manholes : 
Brickwork : 
Reinforced Cement 
Concrete : 
20,079 No. 
11,585 No. 
1.  
8,494.No. 
Lift Manholes 
Pump sewage from 
lower level manhole 
to higher level sewer 
or pumping station 
13 nos.(Zone5 –1no + Zone 7 –12 nos) 
Lift Manholes – Pump will be fixed inside 
manhole. 
Manholes are located along the 
roads within the RoW. Pumps will 
be fixed inside manhole and 
covered. 
Sewage Lift Stations 
(LS) 
Collect Sewage from 
low level sewer and 
pump to higher level 
sewer or to Pumping 
Stations 
10 nos. (Zone5- 7 nos.+Zone7– 3nos.) 
2.  
Components of LS 
• Suction Well : 1.5 m – 2.0 m 
dia and 1.9 m – 5.0 m depth 
• Non-Clog Submersible Pump 
sets 
• Control Panel Box 
Lift Well will be constructed on the 
road shoulder (and in the road itself 
when there is no earthen shoulder) 
where the sewer ends / terminates 
into the lift well. Pumps will be 
installed in the well, and a control 
panel box will be installed near the 
well. Lift stations are proposed at 
following locations : 
1) Kamatchi Nagar (IOB Colony 
near Maruthamalai) 
2) Onappalayam (Burial Ground 
near Sowdeswari College, 
Thondamuthur Road) 
3)S.M.R.Nagar,Sundappalayam 
near drainage crossing 
4) Jothi Park Lands of Sri Ram 
Garden near Ajjanur 
5) Maharani Avenue–Phase IV 
6)GKS Avenue/Lawyers’ Colony 
7) Pothigai Residency and CTC 
Depot Junction at Maruthamalai. 
8) Siva Castle 
9) Adhirshta Lakshmi Garden 
10) Easwaran Nagar 
Sewage Pumping 
Stations 
(PS) 
Collect sewage and 
pump to Main 
Pumping Stations 
2nos. (Zone5 –1 no.  + Zone7 –1no.) 
Components of LS 
• Screen Well : (3.9m dia x 4.2m 
depth) & (4.5m dia x 6.29m depth) 
• Grit Well : (2.5m dia x 5.4m 
depth) & (3m dia x 7.44m depth) 
• Suction Well : (5.0m dia x 
6.2m depth) & (6m dia x 8.7m depth) 
• Pump room : 12m x 8m 
• Non-Clog Submersible Pumpsets 
Sewage Pumping Stations are 
proposed at following locations: 
 
1. Crematorium premises near 
Vadavalli 
Stream(DrainageCrossing). 
2. Cheran Colony. 
3.  
---PAGE BREAK---
9 
 
 
Infrastructure Function Description Location 
Main Sewage 
Pumping Station 
Collect sewage from 
lift stations& pumping 
stations and pump to 
sewage treatment 
plant. 
2 nos.  (Zone5 – 1no. + Zone7 - 1no.) 
Components of LS 
• Screen Well : (9.2m dia x 2.5m 
depth) & (14m dia x 7.32m depth) 
• Grit Well : (6.5m dia x 3.8m 
depth) & (10m dia x 8.6m depth) 
• Suction Well : (9.0mdia x 
5.6m depth) & (18m diax9.7m depth) 
• Pump room : 12m x 8m 
• Non-Clog SubmersiblePumpSets 
Main Sewage Pumping Stations 
are proposed at following locations: 
 
1. Chokkampudur near STP site 
2. Kavundampalayam near STP 
site 
Sewer Pumping 
Mains 
Transfer sewage 
from lift stations, 
pumping stations to 
MPS and finally to 
STP 
14.07 km (Zone5 9.81 + Zone7 4.26) 
C.I.Pipes of dia 150, 200, 250, 600 & 900 
mm 
Mains will be laid underground 
along the roads; large dia mains 
are located on wider roads in the  
project area 
Dia 
(mm) 
Length 
(m) 
% 
150 8,440 59.99% 
200 3,540 25.16% 
250 2,000 14.21% 
600 30 0.21% 
900 60 0.43% 
Total 14,070 100% 
House Service 
Connections 
Collect sewage from 
individual houses and 
convey into network 
71778 No. (Zone V   - 28815 No. 
+ Zone VII - 42963 No.) 
At each household, connected to 
wastewater outlet drain and 
convey to network 
 
  
---PAGE BREAK---
10 
 
 
Table 3 (b): Proposed Underground Sewerage Scheme - STP 
Infrastructure Function Description Location 
Sewage Treatment 
Plant 
Treatment of collected 
wastewater to comply 
with disposal 
standards. 
New – 2 No. 
STP of capcity 15.43 MLD(Zone5) & 
19.49 MLD (Zone7) 
Proposed process : SBR (Sequential 
Batch Reactor). 
This is indicative, as both the STPs 
have been proposed to be executed 
by means of  “DBOT” system of 
contract. Hence actual process will 
be designed by the Design -Build 
contractor after the bid award. 
Components : 
• Mechanical Screens 
• Grit removal 
• Flow measurement a nd flow 
splitter box 
• Batch reactors with individual 
inlet flow control and a fully 
automated process 
Sludge management system 
STP-1(15.43MLD): Site is located at 
Chokkampudur in south zone of 
Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation. 
The total land extent of around 5 acres 
was allotted for the construction of new 
STP.Selected sites is located ideally 
away from the residential areas. Few 
residential colonies are located near the 
boundary of this site; STP will be 
constructed sufficiently inside the 
compound maintaining at least a 
distance of 200 m from the boundary. 
At present within the CCMC site, the 
STP site is accessible via internal roads 
near cremetorium/burial ground and 
from the Compost yard. The road near 
crematorium is narrow (about 3-4 m 
wide), abutted with graves, and used 
primarily by general public for 
crematorium purposes. Hence may not 
be suitable for using as access road to 
STP construction or operation. 
Therefore, it is proposed to use road 
next to compost plant as an access with 
necessary clearance upto STP site. 
The access road alignment will be 
finalized by the PIU in consultation with 
CCMC prior to start of works. 
 
STP-2(19.49MLD): Site is located at 
Koundampalayam Compost yard on 
western side of Mettupalayam road. 
Site is located within a large campus, 
wherein a compost yard, solar panel 
and muslims’ burial ground are 
available, remaining area vacant. Total 
area of this campus is 36 acres, of 
which 10 acres allocated to the new 
STP. The site is located ideally away 
from the residential areas Sanganur 
pallam odai is running adjacent to the 
site, into which the treated effluent is 
proposed to be discharged.  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
---PAGE BREAK---
11 
 
 
Infrastructure Function Description Location 
Outfall sewer 
Zone V: Disposal of 
treated effulent 
from STP into outlet 
stream of 
Kumaraswamy 
Lakewhich flows to 
SelvaChintha-mani 
Kulam & thereon to 
Periyakulam which 
has its final outfall 
into River Noyyal 
 
ZoneVII: Disposal 
of treated effulent 
let into Sanganur 
pallam adjacent to 
the site, leading to 
River Noyyal. 
1500 m length of 400 mm dia DI 
(ductile iron) pipe 
 
 
 
 
500 m length of 700 mm dia DI 
(ductile iron) pipe 
Pipe will be laid underground in 
S.B.O.A.School Road, along the 
Kumaraswamy Lake. 
 
 
 
 
Pipe will be laid underground in the stream 
poromboke along the sanganur stream. 
 
Figure 3: Location of Lifting  and  Pumping Stations (Zone V & VII) 
 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
12 
 
 
 
Figure 4: Location of Lifting  and  Pumping Stations (Zone V) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
13 
 
 
Figure 5: Location of Lifting  and  Pumping Stations (Zone VII) 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
14 
 
 
Figure 6: Sewage Treatment Plant Site (Zone V) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
15 
 
 
Figure 7: Sewage Treatment Plant Site (Zone V) 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
16 
 
 
Figure 8:  Sewage Treatment Plant Site (Zone VII) 
 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
17 
 
 
Figure 9: Sewage Treatment Plant and 1km radius 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
19 
 
 
Figure 10 a: Sewage Treatment Plant – Tentative Layout Map 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
20 
 
 
 
Figure 11 b: Sewage Treatment Plant – Tentative Layout Map 
 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
21 
 
Figure 12: Sewage Treatment Plant and Alignment of Outfall Sewer (Zone V) 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
22 
 
Figure 13: Sewage Treatment Plant and Alignment of Outfall Sewer (Zone VII) 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
23 
 
D. Implementation Schedule : 
18. This subproject is split into three contract packages for implementation:  
 
(i) Sewer system in Zone 5, 
(ii) Sewer system in Zone 7, and  
(iii) Two STPs.  
 
19. Sewer system packages are of ‘Works’ type contract while STP contract is of Design -
Build-Operate (DBO) modality, where in which contractor will design STP, build and operate for 
a duration agreed in the contract. The Bids for civil works were invited in February 2022, and are 
currently under evaluation. Contract is likely to be awarded in June 2022. Construction is likely to 
start in July/Aigust 2022 and will take about 36 months to complete the project.  Detailed 
implementation schedule (including design/pre -construction, construction, commissioning, and 
operation phases) will be provided in the updated IEE as per detailed design. 
 
Sl.no Packages Construction Period (Months) 
1 Sewer system in Zone 5 36 
2 Sewer system in Zone 7 36 
3 Two STPs 36 
 
  
---PAGE BREAK---
24 
 
III. POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK 
A. ADB Policy 
20. ADB requires the consideration of environmental issues in all aspects of ADB’s operations, 
and the requirements for environmental assessment are described in ADB SPS, 2009. This states 
that ADB requires environmental assessment of all ADB investments. 
 
21. Screening and Categorisation: The nature of the environmental assessment required for 
a project depends on the significance of its environmental impacts, which are related to the type 
and location of the project; the sensitivity, scale, nature, and magnitude of its potential impacts; 
and the availability of cost-effective mitigation measures. Projects are screened for their expected 
environmental impacts, and are assigned to one of the following four categories: 
 
(i) Category A. A proposed project is classified as category A if it is likely to have 
significant adverse environmental impacts that are irreversible, diverse, or 
unprecedented. These impacts may affect an area larger than the sites or facilities 
subject to physical works. An environmental impact assessment is required. 
(ii) Category B. A proposed project is classified as category B if its potential adverse 
environmental impacts are less adverse than those of category A projects. These 
impacts are site -specific, few if any of them are irreversible, and in most cases 
mitigation measures can b e designed more readily than for category A projects. 
An initial environmental examination is required. 
(iii) Category C. A proposed project is classified as category C if it is likely to have 
minimal or no adverse environmental impacts. No environmental assessm ent is 
required although environmental implications need to be reviewed. 
(iv) Category FI . A proposed project is classified as category FI if it involves 
investment of ADB funds to or through a Financial Intermediary (FI). 
 
22. Environmental Management Plan: An EMP, which addresses the potential impacts and 
risks identified by the environmental assessment, shall be prepared. The level of detail and 
complexity of the EMP and the priority of the identified measures and actions will be 
commensurate with the project’s impact and risks. 
 
23. Public Disclosure : ADB will post the safeguard documents on its website as well as 
disclose relevant information in accessible manner in local communities  following ADBs SPS 
2009 and Access to Information Policy 2018: 
 
(i) Final or updated IEE upon receipt; and 
(ii) Environmental monitoring reports submitted by the implementing agency during 
project implementation upon receipt. 
 
B. National Environmental Laws: 
24. Environmental Assessment: The Government of India EIA Notification of 2006 (replacing 
the EIA Notification of 1994), sets out the requirement for Environmental Assessment in India. 
This states that Environmental Clearance is required for specified activities/projects, and this must 
be obtained before any construction work or land prepar ation (except land acquisition) may 
commence. Projects are categori sed as A or B depending on the scale of the project and the 
nature of its impacts. 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
25 
 
25. Category A . projects require Environmental Clearance from the central Ministry of 
Environment, Forestsand  Climate Change (MoEF &CC). The proponent is required to provide 
preliminary details of the project in the prescribed manner with all requisite details, after which an 
Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) of the MoEF &CC prepares comprehensive Terms of 
Reference (TOR) for the EIA study. On completion of the study and review of the report by the 
EAC, MoEF &CC considers the recommendation of the EAC and provides the Environmental 
Clearance if appropriate. 
 
26. Category B. projects require environmental clearance from the State Environment Impact 
Assessment Authority (SEIAA). The State level EAC categori ses the project as either B1 
(requiring EIA study) or B2 (no EIA study), and prepares TOR for B1 projects within 60 days. On 
completion of the study and review of the report by the EAC, the SEIAA issues the Environmental 
Clearance based on the EAC recommendation. The Notification also provides that any project or 
activity classified as category B will be treated as category A  if it is located in whole or in part 
within 10 km from the boundary of protected areas, notified areas or inter -state or international 
boundaries. 
 
27. None of the components of this underground sewerage system subproject falls under the 
ambit of the EIA Noti fication 2006, and, therefore EIA Study or Environmental Clearance is not 
required for the subproject. 
 
28. Applicable Environmental Regulations : Besides EIA Notification 2006, there are various 
other acts, rules, policies and regulations currently in force in India that deal with environmental 
issues that could apply to infrastructure development. The specific regulatory compliance 
requirements of the subproject are shown in Table 3. Treated effulent will be disposed into the 
said disposal points strictly adhering to the “Effluent Disposal Standards of Sewage Treatment 
Plants Applicable to All Modes of Disposal” as per NGT order, dt.30.4.2019, shown in Table 4. 
 
Table 4: Applicable Environmental Regulations 
Acts and Rules Description Requirement 
Water 
(Prevention and 
Control of 
Pollution) Act of 
1974, Rules of 
1975, and 
amendments 
 
 
Act was enacted to provide for the prevention 
and control of water pollution and the 
maintaining or restoring of wholesomeness of 
water. Control of water pollution is achieved 
through administering conditions imposed in 
consent issued under to this Act.  All pollution 
potential activities w ill require consent 
toestablish (CTE) from Tamil Nadu Pollution 
Control Board (TNPCB) before starting 
implementation and consent tooperate (CTO) 
before commissioning. 
Construction of proposed 
STPrequires CTE and CTO 
from TNPCB before starting of 
construction and before 
commissioning of STP 
respectively. 
Application has to be 
submitted online at 
http://tnocmms.nic.in/OCMMS/ 
Environment 
(Protection) Act, 
1986 and 
Central 
Pollution 
Control Board 
(CPCB) 
Environmental 
Standards. 
Emissions and discharges from the facilities to 
be created or refurbished or augmented shall 
comply with the notified standards 
 
To comply with applicable 
notified standards. 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
26 
 
Acts and Rules Description Requirement 
Noise Pollution 
(Regulation and 
Control) Rules, 
2000 amended 
up to 2010. 
Rule 3 of the Act specifies ambient air quality 
standards in respect of noise for different 
areas/zones. 
 
To comply with the noise 
standards. 
Air (Prevention 
and Control of 
Pollution) Act, 
1981, amended 
1987 and its 
Rules, 1982. 
- Applicable for equipment and machinery’s 
potential to emit airpollution (including but not 
limited to diesel generators and vehicles); 
• CTE and CTO from TNPCB; 
• Compliance to conditions and emissions 
standards stipulated in the CTE and CTO. 
Generators will require CTE 
and CTO from TNPCB 
Generators to comply with 
applicable emission standards. 
Solid Wastes 
Management 
Rules, 2016 
Rules to manage municipal solid was te 
generated; provides rules for segregation, 
storage, collection, processing and disposal.   
Solid waste generated at 
proposed facilities shall be 
managed and disposed in 
accordance with the SWM 
Rules  
Construction  
and  Demolition 
Waste 
Management 
Rules, 2016 
Rules to manage construction and to waste 
resulting from construction, remodeling, repair 
and demolition of any civil structure. Rules 
define C and D waste as waste comprising of 
building materials, debris resulting from 
construction, re-modeling, repair and demolition 
of any civil structure.  
Construction and demolition 
waste generated from the 
project construction shall be 
managed and disposed as per 
the rules. 
Mentioned  in the Table 16 
(Community Health and Safety 
item(xv) of  EMP as required) 
Labor Laws The contractor shall not make employment 
decisions based upon personal characteristics 
unrelated to job requirements.  The contractor 
shall base the employment relationship upon 
equal opportunity and fair treatment, and shall 
not discriminate with respect to aspects of the 
employment relationship, including recruitment 
and hiring, compensation (including wages and 
benefits), working conditions and terms of 
employment or retirement, and discipline. The 
contractor shall provide equal  wages and 
benefits to men and women for work of equal 
value or type. 
Appendix 2provides applicable 
labor laws including 
amendments issued from time 
to time applicable to 
establishments engaged in 
construction of civil works , 
which will be complied with by  
the project. 
 
Table 5: Effluent Disposal Standards of Sewage Treatment Plants 
S.No. Parameter Standards (Applicable to all 
mode of disposal) 
1. pH 5.5 – 9.0 
2. Bio-Chemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) mg/l 10 
3. Total Suspended Solids (TSS) mg/l 20 
4. Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) mg/l 50 
5. Nirtrogen – Total mg/l 10 
6. Phosphorus Total (For Discharge into Ponds, Lakes) mg/l 1.0 
---PAGE BREAK---
27 
 
S.No. Parameter Standards (Applicable to all 
mode of disposal) 
7. Fecal Coliform (FC) (most Probable number per 100 
milliliter (MPN/100mL) 
Desirable 100 / Permissible-230 
Source: The Hon’ble NGT Order, dt.30.4.2019 in O.A.No.1069/2018 & Govt. Lr.No.21355/EC.1/2019-4/dt.22.1.2020 
 
29. Clearances/ Permissions to be obtained by Contractor :  Following Table shows the list 
of clearances/permissions required for project construction. This list indicative and the contractor 
should ascertain the requirements prior to start of the construction, and obtain all necessary 
clearances/permission prior to start of construction. 
 
Table 6: Clearances and Permissions Required for Construction 
S. No Construction 
Activity 
Statutory 
Authority 
Statute under which Clearance 
is Required Implementation Supervision 
1 Construction of 
new sewage 
treatment plant 
(STP) 
Tamil Nadu 
Pollution Control 
Board (TNPCB) 
Consent To Establish and  
Consent To Operate 
underWater  Act, 1974 
Contractor / PIU PIU 
2 Tree Cutting Department of 
Forest and District 
Collector 
Clearances from the authorities 
as per the Tamil  NaduTimber 
Transit Rules,1968 or latest. 
PIU PIU 
3 Hot mix plants, 
Crushers and 
Batching plants 
TNPCB 
 
Consent To Establish and 
Consent To Operate under Air 
Act, 1981 
Contractor PIU 
4 Discharges 
from 
construction 
activities 
TNPCB Consent To Establish and  
Consent To Operate under  
Water  Act, 1974 
Contractor PIU 
5 Storage, 
handling 
and transport 
of 
hazardous 
materials 
 
TNPCB Hazardous Wastes  
(Management and Handling)  
Rules. 1989 
Manufacturing, Storage 
andImport of Hazardous 
Chemicals Rules, 1989 
Contractor PIU 
6 Sand mining, 
quarries and 
borrow 
areas 
Department of 
Geology and 
mining, Govt. of 
TamilNadu 
 
Not applicable 
Contractor to obtain material 
from the existing government 
licensed mines / quarries; 
Contractor will require prior 
approval of PIU for obtaining 
material from a particular 
source as per legislations from 
authorized quarries with valid 
clearance through the District 
Collector, Coimbatore . PIU to 
review and approve only 
existing licensed mines that are 
compliant with prevailing 
environmental regulations of 
India. 
Contractor PIU 
7 NOC for 
Controlled 
District Collector, 
Coimbatore. 
Explosives Rules, 2008 Contractor PIU 
---PAGE BREAK---
28 
 
S. No Construction 
Activity 
Statutory 
Authority 
Statute under which Clearance 
is Required Implementation Supervision 
Blasting for 
excavation 
8 For 
establishing 
new quarries 
and borrow 
areas 
MOEF&CC Not applicable 
No new quarries / borrow areas 
will be created for the 
subproject. 
Contractor PIU 
9 Groundwater 
extraction 
 
Public Works 
Department 
(Groundwater) Tamil Nadu 
Groundwater Development and 
Management Act 2000 
Contractor PIU 
10 Disposal of 
bituminous 
wastes 
Tamil Nadu State 
Pollution Control 
Board 
Hazardous Wastes  
(Management and Handling)  
Rules. 2016 as amended 
Contractor PIU 
11 Temporary 
traffic 
diversion 
measures 
Traffic Police and 
Coimbatore 
Corporation 
MoRTH 112SP 55 of IRC 
codes 
Contractor PIU 
12 Consent for the 
disposal of 
C&D waste 
from the ULB 
CCMC Construction  and  Demolition 
Waste Management Rules, 2016 
Contractor PIU 
13 Consent from 
the railways or 
NH or SH for 
pipeline 
crossings 
Southern Railway. 
NHAI.State 
Highways 
MoRT&HW-National Highways 
Act 1956 and NHAI Act 1988 
 IRC Act 1997 
Contractor PIU 
 
30. ADB SPS Requirements. During the design, construction and operation of the project the 
PMU and Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will apply pollution prevention and control 
technologies and practices consistent with international good practice, as reflected in 
internationally r ecognized standards such as the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) 
Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Guidelines Guidance Notes and standards of the World 
Health Organization (WHO). These standards contain performance levels and measures that are 
normally acceptable and applicable to projects. When Government of India regulations differ from 
these levels and measures, the PMU and PIU  will achieve whichever is more stringent. If less 
stringent levels or measures are appropriate in view of specific  project circumstances, the PMU 
and PIU will provide full and detailed justification for any proposed alternatives that are consistent 
with the requirements presented in ADB SPS, 2009. 
 
31. The following IFC (World Bank Group) EHS and WHO Guidelines will be adopted in the 
EMP for the subprojects such as: 
 
(i) WHO Guidelines on Air Emissions and Ambient Air Quality, Noise Management, 
Wastewater and Ambient Water Quality,  
(ii) Guidelines for Construction and Decommissioning (2007)  
(iii) Guidelines for Hazardous Material Management and Waste Management  
---PAGE BREAK---
29 
 
(iv) ADB Good Practice Guidance for the Management and Control of Asbestos 
Protecting Workplaces and Communities from Asbestos Exposure Risks (March 
2022)2 
(v) Guidance Note on Workers  Accommodation: Processes and Standards, August 
20063 
(vi) Guidelines on Occupational Health and Safety and Community Health and Safety 
(2007) 
 
32. Comparison of national emissions standards and International Standards / Best Practices 
are provided in Table 6 and Table 7. Due to different measuring conditions, the emission values 
are not directly comparable. However, IFC Guidelines / WHO standards are stricter than the 
national standards if converted to comparable values. The relevant standards applicable to this 
sub-project is identified in the column “applicable per ADB SPS”. 
 
Table 7: National Ambient Air Quality Standards and WHO Guidelines 
   WHO Air Quality Guidelines  
  National  (µg/m3) Applicable Per 
  Ambient Air Global   
 
Location a 
Quality Update Second ADB SPS 
Parameter 
Standards b 2005 c 
Edition 2000 
d (µg/m3) e 
Particulate Industrial 60 (Annual) 20 (Annual) - 20 (Annual) 
Matter PM10 Residential, 
Rural and 
Other Areas 100 (24-hr) 50 (24-hr)  50 (24-hr) 
(µg/m3) Sensitive Area 60 (Annual) 20 (Annual) - 20 (Annual) 
  100 (24-hr) 50 (24-hr)  50 (24-hr) 
Particulate Industrial 40 (Annual) 10 (Annual) - 10 (Annual) 
Matter PM2.5 Residential, 
Rural and 
Other Areas 60 (24-hr) 25 (24-hr)  25 (24-hr) 
(µg/m3) Sensitive Area 40 (Annual) 10 (Annual)  10 (Annual) 
  60 (24-hr) 25 (24-hr)  25 (24-hr) 
Sulfur Industrial 50 (Annual) 20 (24-hr) - 50 (Annual) 
Dioxide SO2 Residential, 
Rural and 
Other Areas 80 (24-hr) 500 (10-min)  
20 (24-hr) 
500 (10-min) 
(µg/m3) Sensitive Area 20 (Annual) 20 (24-hr) - 20 (Annual) 
  80 (24-hr) 500 (10-min)  20 (24-hr) 
       500 (10-min) 
Nitrogen Industrial 40 (Annual) 40 (Annual) - 40 (Annual) 
Dioxide NO2 Residential, 
Rural and 
Other Areas 80 (24-hr) 200 (1-hr)  
80(24-hr) 
200 (1-hr) 
(µg/m3) Sensitive Area 30 (Annual) 40 (Annual) - 30 (Annual) 
  80 (24-hr) 200 (1-hr)  80 (24-hr) 
       200 (1-hr) 
Carbon Industrial 2,000 (8-hr) -  10,000 (8-hr) 2,000 (8-hr) 
 
 
2 https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/publication/783636/good-practice-management-control-asbestos.pdf 
3IFC Guidance Note: Workers Accommodation 
---PAGE BREAK---
30 
 
Monoxide 
CO 
Residential, 
Rural and 
Other Areas 
4,000 (1-hr) 
  
100,000 (15-
min) 
4,000 (1-hr) 
100,000 (15-min) 
(µg/m3) Sensitive Area 2,000 (8-hr) - 10,000 (8-hr) 2,000 (8-hr) 
 
 4,000 (1-hr)  
100,000 (15-
min) 4,000 (1-hr) 
      100,000 (15-min) 
Ozone  Industrial 100 (8-hr) 100 (8-hr) - 100 (8-hr) 
(O3) (µg/m3) Residential, 
Rural and 
Other Areas 180 (1-hr)   180 (1-hr) 
 Sensitive Area 100 (8-hr) 100 (8-hr) - 100 (8-hr) 
  180 (1-hr)   180 (1-hr) 
Lead (Pb) Industrial, 0.5 (Annual) - 0.5 (Annual) 0.5 (Annual) 
(µg/m3) Residential, 
Rural and 
Other Areas 1.0 (24-hr)   1.0 (24-hr) 
 Sensitive Area 0.5 (Annual) - 0.5 (Annual) 0.5 (Annual) 
  1.0 (24-hr)   1.0 (24-hr) 
Ammonia Industrial 100 (Annual) -  100 (Annual) 
(NH3) Residential, 
Rural and 400 (24-hr)   400 (24-hr) 
(µg/m3) Other Areas       
 Sensitive Area 100 (Annual) - - 100 (Annual) 
  400 (24-hr)   400 (24-hr) 
Benzene Industrial 5 (Annual) - - 5 (Annual) 
(C6H6) 
(µg/m3) 
Residential, 
Rural and 
Other Areas       
 Sensitive Area 5 (Annual) - - 5 (Annual) 
Benzo(o) Industrial 1 (Annual) - - 1 (Annual) 
Pyrene 
(BaP) 
Residential, 
Rural and 
Other Areas       
(ng/m3) Sensitive Area 1 (Annual) - - 1 (Annual) 
Arsenic Industrial 6 (Annual) - - 6 (Annual) 
(As) (ng/m3) Residential, 
Rural and 
Other Areas       
 Sensitive Area 60 (Annual) - - 60 (Annual) 
Nickel (Ni) Industrial 20 (Annual) - - 20 (Annual) 
(ng/m3) Residential, 
Rural and 
Other Areas       
 Sensitive Area 20 (Annual) - - 20 (Annual) 
a Sensitive area refers to Ecologically sensitive areas notified by the India Central Government 
b http://cpcb.nic.in/uploads/National_Ambient_Air_Quality_Standards.pdf 
c WHO Air quality guidelines for particulate matter, ozone, nitrogen dioxide and sulfur dioxide. Global update 2005. 
WHO. 2006. 
d Air Quality Guidelines for Europe Second Edition. WHO 2000. 
e As per ADB SPS, the government shall achieve whichever of the ambient air quality standards is more stringent. If 
less stringent levels or measures are appropriate in view of specific project circumstances, the executing agency of 
the government will provide full and detailed justification for any proposed alternatives that are consistent with the 
requirements presented in ADB SPS. 
---PAGE BREAK---
31 
 
Table 8: National Noise Standards and WHO Guidelines 
 
Noise Level  
WHO Guidelines Value   
 For Noise Levels Measured  Applicable Per  
 Standards a Out of Doors b ADB SPS c 
Receptor/ (dBA) (One Hour LAeq in dBA)  (dBA) 
Source Day Night 07:00 – 22:00 22:00 – 07:00 Day time Night time 
Industrial area 75 70 70 70 70 70 
Commercial area 65 55   65 55 
Residential Area 55 45 55 45 55 45 
Silent Zone 50 40   50 40 
a Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2002 as amended up to 2010 
(http://cpcb.nic.in/displaypdf.php?id=Tm9pc2UtU3RhbmRhcmRzL25vaXNlX3J1bGVzXzIwMDAucGRm) 
b Guidelines for Community Noise. WHO. 1999. 
c As per ADB SPS, the project proponent shall achieve whichever of the ambient air quality standards is more 
stringent. If less stringent levels or measures are appropriate in vi ew of specific project circumstances, the project 
proponent will provide full and detailed justification for any proposed alternatives that are consistent with the 
requirements presented in ADB SPS, 2009. 
Table 9: National Drinking Water Quality Standards and WHO Guidelines 
 National Standards for Drinking Water a, b WHO Guidelines 
for Drinking Water 
Quality, 4th 
Edition, 2011c 
Applicable Per 
ADB SPS d, e Group Parameter Unit 
Max. 
Concentration 
Limit 
Physical Turbidity NTU 1 (5) - 1 (5) 
 pH  6.5 – 8.5 None 6.5 – 8.5 
 Color Hazen Units 5 (15) None 5 (15) 
 Taste and  Agreeable - Agreeable 
 Odor     
 TDS mg/l 500 (2,000) - 500 (2,000) 
 Iron mg/l 0.3 - 0.3 
 Manganese mg/l 0.1 (0.3) - 0.1 (0.3) 
 Arsenic mg/l 0.01 (0.05) 0.01 0.01 
 Cadmium mg/l 0.003 0.003 0.003 
 Chromium mg/l 0.05 0.05 0.05 
 Cyanide mg/l 0.05 None 0.05 
 Fluoride mg/l 1 (1.5) 1.5 1 (1.5) 
 Lead mg/l 0.01 0.01 0.01 
 Ammonia mg/l 0.5 none established 0.5 
Chemical Chloride mg/l 250 (1,000) none established 250 (1,000) 
 Barium mg/l 0.7 None 0.7 
 Sulphate mg/l 200 (400) None 200 (400) 
 Nitrate mg/l 45 50 45 
 Copper mg/l 0.05 (1.5) 2 0.05 (1.5) 
 Total mg/l 200 (600) - 200 (600) 
 Hardness     
 Calcium mg/l 75 (200) - 75 (200) 
 Zinc mg/l 5 (15) none established 5 (15) 
 Mercury mg/l 0.001 0.006 0.001 
 Aluminum mg/l 0.1 (0.3) none established 0.1 (0.3) 
 Anionic mg/l 0.2 (1.0) None 0.2 (1.0) 
 Detergents     
 Phenolic mg/l 0.001(0.002) None 0.001(0.002) 
 Compounds     
 Residual mg/l 0.2 5 0.2 
---PAGE BREAK---
32 
 
 National Standards for Drinking Water a, b WHO Guidelines 
for Drinking Water 
Quality, 4th 
Edition, 2011c 
Applicable Per 
ADB SPS d, e Group Parameter Unit 
Max. 
Concentration 
Limit 
 Chlorine     
Microbial E-coli MPN/100ml Must not be 
detectable in 
any100 ml sample 
Must not be 
detectable in any 
100 ml sample 
Must not be 
detectable in any 
100 ml Sample indicator Total Coliform MPN/100ml 
a http://cgwb.gov.in/Documents/WQ-standards.pdf. 
b Bureau of India Standard 10500: 2012 (Indian Standard, Drinking Water — Specification (Second Revision). 
c Health-based guideline values. 
d As per ADB SPS, the government shall achieve whichever of the drinking quality standards is more stringent. If less 
stringent levels or measures are appropriate in view of specific project circumstances, the executing agency of the 
government will provide full and detailed justification for any proposed alternatives that are consistent with the 
requirements presented in ADB SPS, 2009. 
e Figures in parenthesis are maximum limits allowed in the absence of alternate source. 
 
Table 10: Standards for Composting as manure 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
33 
 
C. International Treaties/Conventions/Declarations on Environment Management 
33. India is a signatory to the f ollowing international treaties/ conventions/ declarations  on 
environment, social, safety and occupational issues that are relevant for the subproject. 
The list of international agreements is provided in Table 10.  
Table 11: International Treaties/ Conventions/ Declarations on Environment 
Sl. 
no 
International Treaties/ Conventions/ 
Declarations 
Description 
1.  United Nations Conference on the 
Human Environment - Stockholm 
1972 
To coordinate global efforts to promote 
sustainability and safeguard the natural 
environment 
2.  Convention on International Trade in 
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna 
and Flora (CITES), 1975 
Its aim is to ensure that international trade in 
specimen of wild animals and plants does not 
threaten their survival 
3.  Ramsar Convention, 1971, 1975 The Convention on Wetlands is the inter  
governmental treaty that provides the framework 
for the conservation and wise use of wetlands and 
their resources 
4.  The Basel Convention on the Control 
of Transboundary Movements of 
Hazardous Wastes, 1989 
The Convention aims to protect human health and 
the environment against the adverse effects 
resulting from the generation, transboundary 
movements and management of hazardous 
wastes and other wastes 
5.  Strategic Approach to International 
Chemicals Management (SAICM) 
SAICM is an international non -binding policy 
framework to support efforts to achieve the 
Johannesburg Plan of Implementation (WSSD) 
goal for chemicals, notably “achieve by 2020 that 
chemicals are used & produced in ways that lead 
to the minimization of adverse effects on human 
health & the environment” 
6.  United Nations Conference on 
Environment and Development 
(UNCED), 1992, 2002 
The conference had three objectives (Agenda – 
21, Rio Declaration and Millennium Development 
Goals), to secure renewed political commitment 
for sustainable development, to assess the 
progress and implementation gaps in meeting 
previous commitments, and to addr ess new and 
emerging challenges 
7.  United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change 
(UNFCCC), 1992 
• Kyoto Protocol, 1997 
It operationalizes the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change by committing 
industrialized countries to limit and reduce 
greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions in 
accordance with agreed individual targets 
8.  The Vienna Convention, 1985 
• Montreal Protocol on Ozone 
depleting substances, 1992 
It sets binding progressive phase out obligations 
for developed and developing countries for all the 
major ozone depleting substances, including 
chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), halons and less 
damaging transitional chemicals such as 
hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) 
---PAGE BREAK---
34 
 
Sl. 
no 
International Treaties/ Conventions/ 
Declarations 
Description 
9.  Convention on Biological Diversity, 
1992 
• Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, 
Ratified on 17th January, 2003 
It is an international treaty governing the 
movement of living modified organism (LMO) 
resulting from modern biotechnology from one 
country to another 
10.  Convention to Combat Desertification, 
1996 
It is the only binding international agreement 
linking environment and development to 
sustainable soil management 
11.  Rotterdam Convention on Prior 
Informed Consent Procedure for 
certain Hazardous Chemicals in 
International Trade, 2002 
It is a multilateral treaty to promote shared 
responsibilities in relation to importation of 
hazardous chemicals 
12.  Stockholm Convention on Persistent 
Organic Pollutants (POPs), 2001 
It aims to eliminate or restrict the production and 
use of Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) 
IV. DESCRIPTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT 
A. Methodology Used for Baseline Study : 
34. Data collection and stakeholder consultations : Data for this study has been primarily 
collected through comprehensive literature survey, discussion with stakeholder agencies, and 
field visits to the proposed subproject sites. 
 
35. The literature survey broadly covered the following: 
• Project details, reports, maps, and other documents prepared by TWAD Board, 
CCMC etc.; 
• Discussions with Technical experts of the PPTA team, TNUIFSL, Implementing 
Agency (CCMC), the TWAD Board (PIU) and other relevant government agencies  
• Secondary data from previous project reports and published articles; and  
• Literature on land use, soil, geology, hydrology, climate, socioeconomic profiles, 
and other planning documents collected from Government agencies and websites.  
36. Ocular Inspection :Several visits to the project sites were made during IEE preparation 
period in 2020 to assess the existing environment (physical, biological, and socioeconomic) and 
gather information with regard to the proposed sites and scale of the proposed project. A separate 
socioeconomic study was conducted to determine the demographic information, existing service 
levels, stakeholder needs and priorities. 
 
B. Physical Resources : 
1. Location, Area and  Connectivity : 
37. Situated in the central western part of Tamil Nadu, and about 500 km southwest of capital 
city Chennai, Coimbatore is the third largest city in Tamil Nadu after Chennai and Madurai. It is 
one of the fastest growing cities  in India. This city serves as the District Headquarters for 
Coimbatore District. 
 
38. The extent of Coimbatore city until recently was limited to 105.6 square km when it 
consisted of 72 administrative wards. In 2011 July, the Selection / Special Grade Municipalities 
---PAGE BREAK---
35 
 
around the corporation including the current project areas of Vadavalli and  Veerakeralam, 
wereadded to Coimbatore Corporation. The ward numbers of the corporation have since 
increased from 72 nos. to 100 No. and the geographical area to 257 km 2. Population of the Old 
municipal corporation area of Coimbatore city is 1,050,721 (2011 census).  
(i) Vadavalli Town panchayat , with population of about 39,906 (2011 census) is located 
adjacent to Coimbatore in the Northern Boundary (lies between Latitude : 11.024745 °° 
North & Longitude 76.898036° East with an elevation of 450 m)  which was comprising 
of Lord Muruga Temple at Maruthamalai, Bharathiyar university on Maruthamalai Road 
in addition to Tamilnadu Agricultural University, Sugarcane Institute, Central Cotton 
Research Centre, markets, etc., before the merger. Vadavalli is about 9 km from the 
Coimbatore Railway Station, 14 km from Gandhipuram Bus Station and 19 km from 
Coimbatore International Airport. 
(ii) Veerakeralam Town panchayat lies between Latitude: 11.013056 North Longitude: 
76.8975 East and has an elevation of 425 m. This is the first grade town panchayat from 
8.12.1988 in Coimbatore District, before it became part of Coimbatore Corporation area. 
It covers an area of  6.2 Sq.Km. and is situated at a distance of 8 km from the district 
headquarters. 
(iii) Kavundampalayam (also spelled as Goundampalayam) erstwhile Municipality, is located 
adjacent to Coimbatore in the Northern Boundary, about 6 km north of the city centre (lies 
between Latitude 11.044995 North & Longitude 76.945517 East with an elevation of 330 
m) and is along Mettuppalayam Road in Coimbatore, one of the arterial roads of  the city. 
In 1993 Kavundampalayam was a Selection Grade Town Panchayat and it was further 
upgraded to Third Grade Municipality. In 2011, it has become part of the Coimbatore City 
Municipal Corporation area and stretches around 10.56 Sq.km.  Population of about 
83,908 (2011 census) . There are two ITI institutes for men and women individually, 
district employment office, TNSTC Head Office,more number of reputed pump 
manufacturers carrying out exports, vegetable market, diamond factory, etc. are adorning 
this area with prosperity and employment oppurtunities. 
(iv) Thudiyalur is an erstwhile town panchayat situated on North western side of Coimbatore 
City at a distance of 12 km from city center  (11° 8′ 24″ N Latitude and 76° 57′ 36″ E 
Longitude) and north side of Kavundampalayam and west sid e of Vellakinar. Thudiyalur 
is ideally located on the famous Mettupalayam Road on the way from Coimbatore to Otty. 
Thudiyalur is a fast developing urban centre. This town is well known for its industries of 
Textiles. People residing in Thudiyalur are mainl y employed in industries. This area 
extends over an area of 8.69 Sq.Km. Thudiyalur was constituted on 1958 as village 
panchayat and further it was upgraded to second grade Town Panchayat in 1970. It was 
later upgraded to Selection grade Town Panchayat from  1974 and merged with 
Coimbatore Corporation in 2011. It is located on NH-67 connecting Coimbatore with Ooty 
via Mettuppalayam. Area population as per 2011 census was 33 ,924. Thudiyalur has 
prominent industries in its vicinity such as Texmo, Aqua Pump, CR Spinners, Metal 
industries, Car showrooms, TUCAS – Thudiyalur Cooperative Agricultural Society, etc. 
 
39. Coimbatore has a well-developed transport infrastructure and is well connected by Road, 
Rail and Air with most cities and towns in India. SH 167 passes through Vadavalli area. NH 67 
leading to Ooty passing through Kavundampalayam and Thudiyalur areas. Coimbatore 
International Airport is at about 17 km and Coimbatore Railway Junction at about 19 km from 
Thudiyalur. The Nearest railway station to the  Vadavalliarea is Coimbatore Junction which is 9 
km away. 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
36 
 
2. Topography, Soils and Geology : 
40. Coimbatore district forms part of the upland plateau region of Tamil Nadu with many hill 
ranges, hillocks and undulating topography with a gentle slope towards east except for the hilly 
terrain in the west. Both Vadavalli, Veerakeralam, Kavundampalayam and Thudiyalurareas have 
a predominantly plain terrain that is interspersed by Kousika stream and Noyyal river bed and 
numerous water bodies. The soil formation in Thud iyalur area is the combination of red loa m, 
black soil, sandy and red sandy soil. The region is bounded on the west by steeply rising 
mountains of Western Ghats. 
 
41. (a) Geomorphology : The undulating topography with innumerable depressions, are used 
as tanks for storage of rainwater for agriculture. The prominent geomorphic units identified in the 
district through interpretation of Satellite imagery are 1) Structural hills, 2) Ridges,  3) Inselbergs, 
4) Bazada, 5) Valley fill, 6) Pediment, 7) Shallow Pediments and 8) Deep Pediments. The Nilgiris 
on the northwest and Anamalai on the south are the important ranges, which attain a heights of 
over 2513m above mean sea level (MSL) and the hi ghest elevation in the valleys adjoining the 
hills is 600 M above MSL. The ‘Palghat Gap’, which is an east -west trending mountain pass, is 
an important physiographic feature is located in the western part of the district. 
 
42. The soils of Coimbatore district can be broadly classified into 6 major soils types viz., Red 
calcareous Soil, Black Soil, Red non -calcareous, Alluvial and Colluvial Soil, Brown Soil, and 
Forest Soil. About 60% of the district is covered by red soils, of which red calcareous soil is 
predominant. They occupy most parts of Palladam, Coimbatore, Mettupalayam and Udumalpet 
taluks. The project areas of Vadavalli and Veerakeralam are covered by red soils, of which red 
calcareous soil is predominant. The Alluvial soils are found in small patches a long the Noyyal 
river mainly in the upper reaches. 
 
43. The geological formation of the district is classified as Gneissic complex or Gneissic 
granulites with and allied supra-crustal belt, which are believed to have occurred between 3400 
to 3000 million years ago giving rise to an extensive group of grey gneisses designated as the 
“older gneiss complex”. These gneisses act as the basement for a widespread  belt of schist’s. 
Sargur group comprises ultramafic rocks, amphibolites, Quartzite banded magnetite-quartzite 
occurring as small bands and lenses within the migmatites and gneisses. 
 
44. (b) Geology : Coimbatore district is underlain by a wide range of high grade metamorphic 
rocks of the peninsular gneissic complex. Rocks are composed of minerals and amorphous solids. 
Since the geological set up controls the occurrence and movement of groundwater, the a bility of 
the parent rock to store and transport groundwater is of great importance for its occurrence. The 
major rock types occurring in the district are fissile hornblende biotite gneiss, sand and silt, granite, 
amphibolites, metagabbro, pyroxenite, pyro xene granulite, charnockite, garnet sillimanite – 
graphite gneiss, calc-granulite and limestone and pink migmatite.There are no known or reported 
cases of land subsidence in or close to the subproject area. 
  
---PAGE BREAK---
37 
 
Figure 14: Geomorphology of Project Area 
 
 
 
3. Seismology 
45. Per Bureau of Indian Standards (IS 1893: Par 1: 2002) earthquake zoning map of India, 
Tamil Nadu falls in Zones II & III (Low & Moderate Damage Risk Zones).  Seismic hazard in the 
state is governed by Zone III in a few cities (for example, Chennai, Kanchee puram, Coimbatore, 
Cuddalore), and the rest of the state, which has few or no records of earthquakes, has been 
assigned to Zone II as shown in zoning map. Coimbatore falls under Zone III, which is the 
moderate earthquake risk zone in India. Structural design of infrastructure elements will be done 
with due consideration to relevant codes.  
 
4. Climatic Conditions 
46. It is located at the foothills of Western Ghats, Coimbatore is blessed with a pleasant, 
salubrious climate due to its proximity to the thickly forested mountain ranges and the cool breeze 
blowing through the Palghat gap which makes the consistently hot temperatures pleasant. The 
city has a tropical wet and dry climate, with the wet season being from October to December due 
to the northeast monsoon. Coimbatore is located at an elevation of about 411 meters, and enjoys 
pleasant climate throughout the year. Due to the presence of the mountain pass, major parts of 
the district benefit from the south-west monsoon. 
 
47. January and February experience a very pleasant climate. During March, the sky is clear, 
but the temperature start increasing which continues till the end of May. The highest temperature 
is recorded early in April/May. Due to the presence of the mountain pass, more elevated parts of 
the district benefit from the south-west monsoon in the months from June to August. September 
is the inter monsoon period and the sky is clear. During October and November, the North East 
Kavundampalayam Kavundampalayam 
Thudiyalur 
Vadavalli 
Veerakeralam 
---PAGE BREAK---
38 
 
monsoon sets in and provides most of the rains in this district. But after mid -December rain 
ceases. The temperature which was once set on the downward trend 
continues its course till the end of January. 
 
48. The climatic condition of Coimbatore district is most conducive for people and cotton 
ginning and weaving Industries.The maximum temperature ranges from 36 oC to 41 oC and the 
minimum temperature varies from 14 oC to 31 oC. The mean daily temperature during summer 
varies from 33oC to 40oC and the mean daily temperature during winter varies from 15oC to 31oC. 
Rain occurs during South-West and North-East monsoons. North-east monsoon contributes the 
maximum of 328.2 mm during October to December. The average annual rainfall of this district is 
647.2 mm from four distinct seasons. 
  
 Figure 15: Annual Seasonal Rainfall in Project Area 
 
Figure 16: Monthly Max  and  Min Average Temperature in Project Area 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
39 
 
 
5. Surface Water 
49. River Noyyal, a small river and tributary of River Cauvery, passes through Coimbator e 
city. The flow in the river is negligible, and only consists of wastewater it collects from the 
surrounding areas. The maximum width of the stream is about 50 m in the city, but this is visible 
only at some places like river bridges in the city. In most o f the course, the width is about 10 -20 
m, and flow within that confines to a maximum of 5 m wide, and shallow.  Prior to 2011, 
Noyyalformed part of southern boundary of the municipal corporation limit. In 2011, Kur ichi and 
Kuniamuthur Municipalities, which are located south of the River are added to the municipal limit. 
It rises in Vellingiri hills in the Western Ghats in Tamil Nadu, close to Kerala State border. This 
rain fed River flows from west to east, and travels a distance of 180 km through five dist ricts of 
Coimbatore, Tirupur, Erode, Karur, and Trichy. Cities of Coimbatore and Tirupur are two main 
cities along its course, about 50 km apart. It finally joins River Cauvery at Noyyal, a village in 
Karur district. The river's basin is 180  km long and 25  km  wide and covers a total area of 
3,500 km². Project area lies within the watershed expanse of the Noyyal River Basin and consists 
of a network of tanks and canals apart from lakes.  Urban flooding (surface flooding of 
impermeable urban surfaces and over flow of saturated urban drainage systems and channels, 
resulting from sustained or intense rainfall events) is experienced in part of Coimbatroe city during 
the heavy rains. Riverine flooding along Noyyal rivers and canals occurs during heavy flows. 
 
50. There are several lakes and tanks in Coi mbatore. Nine notable lakes are  Ammankulam, 
Narasampathi, Krishnam pathi, Selvampathy, Kumaraswamy, Muthannakulam, 
Selvachinthamani, Periya Kulam, Ukkadam Big Tank, Valankulam and Singanallur. There are 24 
tanks in the city , however, none of these are located in the subproject area. Krishnampathi is 
located surrounding of Veerakeralam, in the subproject area. Water quality data presented in the 
following Table shows contamination, probably due to entry o f wastewater from the catchment 
areas, with biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) value of  6.10milligram per liter (mg/l)  and 
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) valued from 242 mg/l to 470 mg/l. 
 
Table 12: Water Quality Data of Lakes, 2016 
S. No. Parameters Units Selvachinthamani Periyakulam 
1 DO Mg/l 5.40 5.10 
2 FC MPN/ 100ml 110 140 
3 PH PH  7.85 8.72 
4 EC ΜS/cm 413 1456 
5 BOD Mg/l 3.82 4.20 
6 COD Mg/l 260 470 
7 PO4 Mg/l 2.00 2.20 
8 NO3 Mg/l 3.70 4.90 
9 SO4 Mg/l 24 122 
10 Cl- Mg/l 320 872 
11 Alkalinity Mg/l 160 562 
12 TDS Mg/l 246 952 
---PAGE BREAK---
40 
 
S. No. Parameters Units Selvachinthamani Periyakulam 
13 Turbidity NTU 7.20 12.50 
[Source: Jeyaraj.M et.al (2016)] 
 
51. Current use and Water Quality of the Selvachinthamani Lake and Periyakulam Lake 
. There are 8 major water bodies within the corporation limits. The total area of about 423 Ha with 
a storage capacity of about 16.07 Mcum. Most of the tanks are used for irrigation. These tanks 
could be used as potential recharge centres. Most of  the tanks are located in southern part of the 
city and finally drain into Noyyal River.  
Figure 17: Location of 8 Lakes in Coimbatore Corporation 
 
 
 
Figure 18: Tanks and Anaicuts Connecting Noyyal River 
  

---PAGE BREAK---
41 
 
Figure 19: Connectivity of Lakes and Joining into River Noyyal 
 
 
 
52. The Noyyal River forms the southern boundary of the Coimbatore Corporation and acts 
as a major drainage course carrying the storm water discharge. 
53. Selvachinthamani Lake is the smallest water body and is located under core corporation 
limits of Coimbatore City.The lake is spread over an area of 33 Acres 21.12 Guntas (1,33,518 
sqm). It is a rain fed lake and is connected with Narasampathy, Krishnampathy, Kumaraswamy 
and Selvampathy Lakes in the upstream; in the downstream it is connected to Periyakulam Lake 
and eventually joins River Noyyal on the south of the city. 
  

---PAGE BREAK---
42 
 
Figure 20: Details of Selvachinthamani Lake 
 
 
Table 13 : Salient Features of Selvachinthamani Lake 
Latitude N 10° 59’ 24.29” 
Longitude E 76° 56’ 48.91” 
Area of the Lake (as per Topographical survey drawing) 33 Acres 21.12 Guntas (133518 
sqm) 
Catchment area of the lake (Watershed delineation using Topo Sheet) 1.23 sq.km 
Current analysis catchment area of the lake (independent) 0.89 sq.km 
Existing Full Tank Level as per survey drawing 411.00 m 
Total length of the existing main bund 550 m 
Surplus Arrangement / Surplus Weir 3 vent regulator 
Existing surface area of Lake at FTL as per survey drawing 1,16,757 sq. m 
Storage volume of the Lake as per survey drawing up to FTL 1,85,215 cu. m. 
Storage volume of the Lake (as per survey Tank Register) 85,517 cu.m 
Existing Maximum depth (Z max) (Considering from FTL) 2.82 m 
Estimated flood discharge 51.6 Cumecs 
Spillage Depth 0.45 m (Historical) 
0.90 m (Proposed) 
 
54. A Dry Weather Flow of 1200 cum/day was measured at inlet 1 of Selvachinthamani lake, 
that is mostly generated from households in the catchment.  

---PAGE BREAK---
43 
 
Table 14 : Water Quantity / Quality of Selvachinthamani Lake 
Quantity 1200 cum/day as measured in June 2017 (Dry Weather Flow) 
Quality Sample Type : Composite 
Parameter Value 
BOD (mg/L) 164 
COD (mg/L) 714 
pH @ 25° C 11.36 
Nitrates (mg/L) 20.2 
 
55. Periyakulam Lake is the largest water body  which falls under core corporation limits of 
Coimbatore city, having a completely built -up catchment area with a spread of over 337 acres, 
and is connected with Narasampathy, Krishnampathy, Selvampathy, Kumaraswamy and 
Selvachinthamani lakes and the river Noyyal in the upstream. In the downstream it is connected 
to Valankulam and Singanallur lakes eventually joining into the Noyyal River. 
Figure 21: Details of Periyakulam Lake 
 
Table 15: Salient Features of Periyakulam Lake 
Geographic Location of the Lake N 10° 58’ 44” E 76° 56’ 43.56” 
Catchment Area of the Lake as per toposheet 8.53 sq km 
Catchment area of the Lake as per Storm water network and diverted 
catchment 11.31 sq km 
Existing FTL as per Survey drawing 405.86 
Proposed New Full Tank Level 405.50 
Existing surface area of the lake at FTL as per topo survey 12,49,739 sqm (333 acres) 

---PAGE BREAK---
44 
 
Storage volume of the lake (as per survey tank memoir 19,80,763 cum (1980 ML) 
Storage volume of the lake as per topo survey drawing upto FTL 24,40,059 cum (2440 ML) 
Estimated Flood Discharge (combined catchment) 162.2 cumecs 
Surplus arrangements Surplus weir length – 27m 
Sluice arrangements 2 (N-E & S-E Corners) 
Spillage depth at the weir 0.6 m Historical 0.9 m 
Proposed 
Total wastewater inflow 12.8 MLD 
 
56. A Dry Weather Flow of 80 cum/day was measured at inlet 3 of Periyakulam lake that is 
mostly generated from households along Sukrawarapetai area located upstream of the lake. This 
flow containsless load of pollutants.  
 
Table 16:Water Quantity / Quality of Periyakulam Lake 
Particulars Inlet-3 Inlet-4 Inlet-5 
Quantity 
80 cum/day as measured in 
June 2017 (Dry Weather 
Flow) 
6000 cum/day as 
measured in June 2017 
2.95 mld as measured in June 
2017 (Dry Weather Flow) 
Quality Sample Type : Composite Sample Type : Composite Sample Type : Composite 
Parameter Value Value Value 
BOD (mg/L) 135 102 452 
COD (mg/L) 576 472 1190 
pH @ 25° C 7.36 7.26 7.38 
Nitrates 
(mg/L) 
18.6 17.3 2.3 
 
57. Sanganoor Stream: Sanganoor Stream which was a natural stream carrying rainwater 
from the Thadagam valley into the Singanallur Lake and finally drains into the River Noyyal. Thus, 
this stream has the adequacy to carry the treated water from the STP. Also, the Corporation has 
submitted a proposal to the finance committee for the rejuvenation and restoration of the stream. 
 
58. Lake Level Recommendation and Interventions : Under the SMART City Mission 
programme - Eco-Restoration for Lakes in Coimbatore Corporation Area, following interventions 
have been recommended such as FTL Revision; Desilting; Inlet Drain Refurbishment; 
Dismantling/decommissioning of inlet weir; Construction of Surplus Arrangement; Refurbishment 
of Outlet Nallah Surplus Arrangem ent; Improvements to existing bund; Wastewater Treatment 
System at all the inlets of both the lakes and the Project Implementation is in progress in 
Selavachinthamani and Periyakulam Lakes. In the Periyakulam lake mobility corridor has been 
provided to avail recreational facility and remaining works are in progress. 
 
59. Disposal of Treated Effluent from two STPs  : In the Sub-project Zone V & VII, the 
sewage will be  treated to the current standards stipulated by the NGT (ie., BOD – 10 mg/l) and 
let into the nearby stream post chlorination.  
 
• In Zone V, Disposal of treated effulent from STP into outlet odai of Kumaraswamy 
Lakewhich flows to Selva  Chintha-mani Kulam & thereon to Periyakulam having its final 
outfall into the River Noyyal.  Under the ‘Eco -Restoration of Lakes’ already taken up for 
implementation by Coimbatore Corporation, the inlet channels are proposed to be 
refurbished and the carrying capacity will be  improved. The treated effluent after disposal 
travels for a distance of about 3 km in the open channel, before reaching the subsequent 
---PAGE BREAK---
45 
 
waterbody, Selvachinthamani Kulam,during which, the level of BOD gets reduce d further 
due to aeration in the atmospheric contact. Hence, letting the treated effluent from the 
above Sub-project is not envisaged to affect the receiving water bodies in respect of its 
usage, such as agriculture, fishing, recreational  purpose, etc. Since the pivotal objective 
of  the above pro gramme are ecological restoration of lakeswhile ensuring maximum 
storage of water in the lakes thereby ensuring  continuous flow of water . This would  
facilitate the management of treated effulent without harming the eco system.  
• In Zone VII, Disposal of treated effulent let into Sanganur stream adjacent to the site, 
leading to River Noyyal. The stream is proposed for rejuvenation and restoration to 
increase the depth, by Corporation. 
6. Ground Water 
60. Investigation of Water Quality Index of River Noyyal and Its Connected Ponds Coimbatore 
Tamil Nadu India. This investigation deals with the determination of various physico-chemical and 
biological parameters of surface water quality of river Noyyal and its connected ponds at 
Coimbatore, India. Based on their significance, the sampling locations were selected. There are 
five sampling locations were selected like river Noyyal at source (S1), Perur Lake, (S2), Ukkadam 
Pond (S3), Singanallur Lake (S4) and Sulur Pond (S5),  and samples were collected from each 
locations at river Noyyal basin in and around Coimbatore district. The surface water quality index 
determination is prerequisite and essential. In this present work, from different methods of water 
quality determination, the most commonly used index of National Sanitation Foundation water 
quality index (NSF -WQI) has been followed. The physico -chemical and biological parameters 
such as dissolved oxygen, faecal coliforms counts, pH, biochemical oxygen demand, phosphate, 
nitrates, turbidity, and total dissolved solids were investigated. Except in Noyyal river at source 
(S1) all the measured parameters are showed to be very high compared to limits suggested by 
WHO particularly during summer season and thereby it is not suitable for public use. 
 
Figure 22: Graphical Representation of WQP of River Noyyal Connected Ponds during 
Summer and Rainy Seasons – 2018 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
46 
 
 
 
 
 
  

---PAGE BREAK---
47 
 
Table 17: Values of Water Quality Parameter and Water Quality Index of River Noyyal 
Connected Ponds during Summer Season (2018) 
S.No. Test Parameters Unit S1 S2 S3 S4 S5 
1. DO % Saturation 94.00 87.00 86.00 84.00 81.00 
2. Faecal Coliforms MPN/100 ml 4.00 24.00 85.00 119.00 128.00 
3. pH pH units 7.80 8.00 8.14 9.20 10.90 
4. BOD mg/L 0.90 3.50 4.20 5.50 8.60 
5. Total Phosphates mg/L 0.30 1.40 1.65 1.80 2.10 
6. Nitrates mg/L 0.50 4.00 4.80 5.10 7.50 
7. Turbidity NTU 2.00 18.00 22.00 32.00 43.00 
8. TDS mg/L 97.00 437 680 1250 1800 
Overall WQI NSF 91.00 68.00 62.00 61.50 56.00 
MNSF 91.50 74.00 67.00 65.00 61.00 
Table 18: Values of Water Quality Parameter and Water Quality Index of River Noyyal 
Connected Ponds during Rainy Season (2018) 
S.No. Test Parameters Unit S1 S2 S3 S4 S5 
1. DO % Saturation 95.00 87.50 86.00 84.50 83.00 
2. Faecal Coliforms MPN/100 ml 2.50 28.00 45.00 54.00 82.00 
3. pH pH units 7.50 7.70 7.80 9.10 9.50 
4. BOD mg/L 0.60 2.40 3.55 4.50 6.50 
5. Total Phosphates mg/L 0.20 1.20 1.50 1.72 1.90 
6. Nitrates mg/L 0.40 3.00 4.50 4.80 6.50 
7. Turbidity NTU 1.50 16.00 20.00 28.50 34.00 
8. TDS mg/L 88.00 476 780 800 1200 
Overall WQI NSF 92.20 72.70 65.00 62.50 60.50 
MNSF 93.00 78.00 70.50 68.50 64.50 
[Source : JEYARAJ et al., Orient. J.Chem.,Vol. 35(3), 1125-1131 (2019)]Values shown are absolute values of one-time sampling and 
laboratory testing. 
 
61. The district is underlain by both porous and fissured formations. The important aquifer 
systems in the district are constituted by i) unconsolidated formations and ii) weathered and 
fractured crystalline rocks. The porous formations in the district are represented by alluvium and 
colluviums. 
62. Ground water occurs under phreatic conditions in the weathered mantle and under semi-
confined conditions in the fractured z ones. The shallow aquifers in the major part of the district 
occur within the depth of 30 m while in the western most part of Coimbatore; they are more than 
30 m. The depth of the wells ranged from 7 to 45 m bgl. The yield of large diameter wells in the 
district, tapping the weathered mantle of crystalline rocks ranges from 50 to 300 lpm and are able 
to sustain pumping for 2 to 4 hours per day. The Specific capacity of large diameter wells tested 
in crystalline rocks from 6.28 to 200.00 lpm/m. of drawdown. 
63. The yield of bore wells drilled down to a depth of 50 to 100 m, by various state agencies 
mainly for domestic purposes ranged from 1 to 5 lps. The yield of successful bore wells drilled 
down to a depth of 304 mbgl during the ground water exploration progra mme of Central Ground 
Water Board ranged from <1 to 10 lps. The aquifer and well parameters of the wells show wide 
variation. The depth to water level in the district varied between 1.54 and 39.03 mbgl during pre-
monsoon (May 2006) and varied between 0.62 and 36.42 mbgl during post monsoon (Jan 2007). 
The seasonal fluctuation shows a rise in water level, which ranges from 0.34 to 10.88 mbgl. The 
piezometric head varied between 1.47 to 50.66 mbgl (May 2006) during pre -monsoon and 0.34 
to 51.02 mbgl during post monsoon (Jan 2007).  
---PAGE BREAK---
48 
 
64. The estimation of groundwater resources for the Coimbatore district has shown that out 
of 19 blocks, 11 blocks are over exploited and 4 blocks are under “critical” category. 
 
Figure 23: Ground Water Prospects in Project Area 
 
 
Source: Bhuvan 
 
65. Groundwater Quality. Ground water in phreatic aquifers in Coimbatore district in general 
is colorless, odorless and slightly alkaline in nature. According to central ground water board 
(CGWB) report, the specific electrical conductance of ground water in phreatic zone (μS at 25oC) 
during May 2006 was in the range of 597 to 4810 in the district. It is between 750 and 2250 μS/cm 
at 25°C in th e major part of the district. Conductivity below 750 μS/cm has been observed in 
Kaltanpet whereas conductance exceeding 2250 μS/cm has been observed in parts of Avinashi, 
P.N.Palayam, Tiruppur, Nachipalayam, Vadavalli, Singanallur, S ulur, Podanur and 
Chinnaripalayam. In Vadavalli, Veerakeralam & Part of Kavundampalayam areas, 800 lpm of yield 
is expected in deep well to a depth more than 30m and in Thudiyalur area 50 to 100 lpm of yield 
out of deep well more than 30 m depth. Following table shows the groundw ater quality in 
Coimbatore along River Noyyal. Water hardness and calcium is higher than permissible limits. 
Kavundampalayam 
Vadavalli 
Veerakeralam 
Thudiyalur 
---PAGE BREAK---
49 
 
Table 19:Groundwater Quality 
Parameters BIS standard Pre-monsoon 
(mean) 
Post-monsoon 
(mean) 
pH 6.5 – 8.5 7.47 7.26 
Total dissolved solids, mg/l 500 – 2000 1237.10 1329.72 
Total hardness, mg/l 300 – 600 748.23 676.15 
Calcium, mg/l 75 -200 518.26 512.69 
Magnesium, mg/l 30 – 100 230.73 163.46 
Sodium, mg/l 200 70.96 100.82 
Potassium, mg/l - 88.7 165.66 
Chloride, mg/l 250 – 1000 218.63 200.3 
Bicarbonate, mg/l 300 – 600 702.54 95.63 
Sulphate, mg/l 200 – 400 17.06 19.31 
Kalaivani S. and Ramesh K. (2014-15), “Groundwater Quality Assessment using WQI In South 
Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, India”, International Journal of Chem Tech Research, Vol. 7(1). 
 
7. Ambient Air Quality 
66. The ambient air quality in the project area is being monitored under National Air Quality 
Monitoring Programme (NAMP) at following locations in Coimbatore  (i) District Collector’s Office 
(Mixed zone), (ii) Ponniyarajapuram (Residential zone), and (iii) SIDCO Building (Industrial zone). 
67. National ambient air quality monitoring (NAAQM) station at Small Industries Development 
Corporation (SIDCO) Industrial Estate is located within Kur ichi area (southeastern corner) while 
rest of the two monitoring stations are about 5 kilometers away from the project area, but within 
Coimbatore City. The sources of pollution are windblown road dust, industries and automobile 
emissions. Kurichi area is traversed by NH209 and Kuniamuttur area is bifurcated by Palakkad 
road. Both the roads are busy with high vehicular movement. This vehicular movement contribute 
to the air quality in the area. Maximum and average values of the PM10 is higher than the 
prescribed standard.  
Table 20: Annual Average Concentrations of Air Pollutants, 2018 -2019 
Sl. 
No. Location Category 
Annual Average Concentrations of Air Pollutants in 
Micro Grams per Cubic Meter(µg/m3) 
SO2 
(Sulpuhr di oxide) 
NO2 
(Nitrogen di oxide) 
PM10 
(Particulate Matter) 
Max Min Avg Max Min Avg Max Min Avg 
1 DCO Mixed 6 4 5 25 19 22 80 36 57 
2 Ponaiyarajapura
m 
Residential 6 4 5 24 18 21 75 30 48 
3 SIDCO Industrial 8 6 7 29 20 23 87 40 61 
NAAQ Standard 
Industrial, Residential, Rural  
and  Other Areas  – Annual 
Average 
 
50 
 
40 
 
60 
Industrial, Residential, Rural  
and  Other Areas 24 hours 80 80 100 
Ecologically Sensitive Area -
Annual 20 30 60 
---PAGE BREAK---
50 
 
Sl. 
No. Location Category 
Annual Average Concentrations of Air Pollutants in 
Micro Grams per Cubic Meter(µg/m3) 
SO2 
(Sulpuhr di oxide) 
NO2 
(Nitrogen di oxide) 
PM10 
(Particulate Matter) 
Max Min Avg Max Min Avg Max Min Avg 
Ecologically Sensitive Area -
24 hours 80 80 100 
[Source: Annexure-6 / TNPCB Annual Report 2018-19] 
 
Table 21:Annual Average Concentrations of Air Pollutants, 2008 -2009 
Sl. 
No. Location Category 
Annual Average Concentrations of Air Pollutants in 
Micro Grams per Cubic Meter(µg/m3) 
SO2 
(Sulpuhr di oxide) 
NO2 
(Nitrogen di oxide) 
PM10 
(Particulate Matter) 
Max Min Avg Max Min Avg Max Min Avg 
1 DCO Mixed 7 4 5 38 19 30 91 28 59 
2 Ponaiyarajapura
m 
Residential 7 4 5 44 17 31 80 20 50 
3 SIDCO Industrial 8 5 6 49 25 37 193 85 116 
 
 
Table 22:Annual Average Concentrations of Air Pollutants, 2009 -2010 
Sl. 
No. Location Category 
Annual Average Concentrations of Air Pollutants in 
Micro Grams per Cubic Meter(µg/m3) 
SO2 
(Sulpuhr di oxide) 
NO2 
(Nitrogen di oxide) 
PM10 
(Particulate Matter) 
Max Min Avg Max Min Avg Max Min Avg 
1 DCO Mixed 18 4 5 56 10 23 273 23 60 
2 Ponaiyarajapuram Residential 16 4 5 50 10 23 153 11 51 
3 SIDCO Industrial 29 4 7 60 10 27 216 51 100 
 
Figure 24: Annual Average Concentrations of Air Pollutants 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
51 
 
Source: Air Pollution Database in Tamil Nadu 2014 by Envis Centre. 
 
68. Following figure shows the ambient air quality in “Mixed Area” of Coimbatore from April 
‘2012 to October ‘ 2020. Particulate matter is higher than the prescribed standard. Oxides of 
Nitrogen and Sulphur are well within the limits. 
  
Table 23: Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Results of Coimbatore between 2012& 2020 
A. Location : Collectorate Office Building / GD Matric School, Coimbatore 
Category – Mixed Area 
Year (April to March) Annual Average Concentration of Air pollutants, µg/m³ 
TSPM RSPM SO2 NO2 
2012 -2013 143.6 63.0 4.2 27.8 
2013 - 2014 101.4 43.6 <4.0 25.0 
 PM 10 PM 2.5 SO2 NO2 
2014 - 2015 44.1 33.9 <4.0 25.7 
2015 - 2016 44.4 26.7 <4.0 25.1 
2016 - 2017 49.6 31.2 5.6 23.3 
2017 - 2018 43.8 31.6 5.8 24.2 
2018 - 2019 56.5 31.4 5.2 21.8 
2019 - 2020 65.7 21.3 5.8 17.4 
April ‘2020 – October ‘2020 43.9 22.8 6.0 16.6 
Prescribed Standard 
Industrial 360 120 80 80 
Residential, Rural & Other Areas (Mixed) 140/PM10-60 60/PM2.5-40 60 60 
NAAQS-2009 100 60 40 50 
[Source: TNPCB - Advanced Environmental Laboratory, Coimbatore - Air Pollution Database] 
 
  
---PAGE BREAK---
52 
 
Figure 25: Ambient Air Quality of Coimbatore 2012  to 2020 (Mixed Area) 
 
 
[Source: TNPCB - Advanced Environmental Laboratory, Coimbatore - Air Pollution Database] 
 
69. Following figure shows the ambient air quality in “Industrial Area” of Coimbatore from April 
‘2012 to October ‘2020. Particulate matter , Oxides of Nitrogen and Sulphur are well within the 
limits. 
 
Table 24:Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Results of Coimbatore between 2012& 2020 
B. Location : SIDCO 
Category – Industrial 
Year (April to March) Annual Average Concentration of Air pollutants, µg/m³ 
TSPM RSPM SO2 NO2 
2012 -2013 160.9 80.3 5.6 25.2 
2013 - 2014 149.9 59.2 <4.0 27.6 
 PM 10 PM 2.5 SO2 NO2 
2014 - 2015 57.1 35.0 <4.0 26.7 
2015 - 2016 52.3 35.4 <4.0 26.9 
2016 - 2017 64.8 41.5 5.9 26.5 
2017 - 2018 57.9 39.7 6.0 25.5 
2018 - 2019 60.8 36.6 6.6 22.9 
2019 - 2020 53.6 24.1 7.2 18.9 
April ‘2020 – October ‘2020 43.5 20.5 8.1 19.7 
Prescribed Standard 
Industrial 360/PM10-60 120/PM2.5 -40 80 80 
Residential, Rural & Other Areas 
(Mixed) 
140/ 60 60 60 
NAAQS-2009 NA 60 40 50 
[Source: TNPCB - Advanced Environmental Laboratory, Coimbatore - Air Pollution Database] 

---PAGE BREAK---
53 
 
Figure 26: Ambient Air Quality of Coimbatore 2012  to 2020 (Industrial Area) 
 
 
[Source: TNPCB - Advanced Environmental Laboratory, Coimbatore - Air Pollution Database] 
 
70. Following figure shows the ambient air quality in “Residential Area” of Coimbatore from 
April ‘2012 to October ‘2020. Particulate matter , Oxides of Nitrogen and Sulphur are well within 
the limits. 
 
 
Table 25: Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Results of Coimbatore between 2012& 2020 
C. Location :Ponniyarajapuram, Velandipalayam, Kavundampalayam & Thudiyalur 
Category – Residential Area 
Year (April to March) Annual Average Concentration of Air pollutants, µg/m³ 
TSPM RSPM SO2 NO2 
 Ponniyarajapuram 
2012 -2013 130.8 58.9 5.1 26.7 
2013 - 2014 110.6 45.5 <4.0 23.0 
 PM 10 PM 2.5 SO2 NO2 
2014 - 2015 48.6 29.1 <4.0 22.2 
2015 - 2016 47.7 28.3 <4.0 22.6 
2016 - 2017 54.2 32.1 <4.0 22.1 
 Ponniyarajapuram & Velandipalayam 
2017 - 2018 46.8 32.2 4.5 23.4 
 Velandipalayam & Kavundampalayam 
2018 - 2019 47.8 26.7 5.0 20.6 
 Kavundampalayam 
2019 - 2020 40.1 23.1 5.2 16.2 
April ‘2020 – October ‘2020 44.1 17.8 6.1 16.9 
Prescribed Standard 
Industrial 360 120 80 80 
Residential, Rural & Other Areas 
(Mixed) 
140/ PM10-60 60/ PM2.5-60 60 60 
NAAQS-2009 NA 60 40 50 
[Source: TNPCB - Advanced Environmental Laboratory, Coimbatore - Air Pollution Database] 

---PAGE BREAK---
54 
 
Figure 27: Ambient Air Quality of Coimbatore 2012  to 2020 (Residential Area) 
 
 
[Source: TNPCB - Advanced Environmental Laboratory, Coimbatore - Air Pollution Database] 
 
8. Ambient Noise Levels 
71. The ambient noise levels recorded in the vicinity of project area are higher than the day 
and night time noise standards (55 dBA  and  45 dBA) for residential areas as well as for 
commercial areas (65 dBA  and  55dBA). 
Table 26:Ambient Day-time Noise Levels in Coimbatore 
Area Name Normal Day dB (A) - Max Festival Day dB(A) - Max 
Saibaba Kovil Signal  72 68 
Ponniarajapuram 67 82 
Standards 55 55 
Source: CPCB 2014 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
55 
 
C. Ecological Resources 
72. Geographicaly 
Coimbatore is situated on the 
banks of river Noyyal and 
foothills of Western Ghats and 
Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve 
(NBR). NBR is spread over vast 
area of 5,520 sq. km in three 
states of Tamil Nadu, Kerala 
and Karnataka; about 46% area 
is situated in Tamil Nadu state. 
NBR falls under the 
biogeographic region of   the 
Malabar rain forest. Mudumalai 
Wildlife Sanctuary, Wyanaad 
Wildlife Sanctuary Bandipur 
National Park, Nagarhole 
National Park, Mukurthi National 
Park and Silent Valley are the 
protected areas present within 
this reserve. The reserve 
extends from the tropical and 
subtropical moist broadleaf 
forests, tropical moist forests o f 
the western slopes of the Ghats 
to the tropical and subtropical 
dry broadleaf forests tropical dry 
forests on the east slopes. 
Rainfall ranges from 500mm to 
7,000 mm per year. The reserve 
encompasses three ecoregions, the South Western Ghats moist decidu ous forests, South 
Western Ghats montane rain forests, and South Deccan Plateau dry deciduous forests.  This 
encompasses Nilgiri mountains, spread in west of Coimbatore. The boundary of biosphere 
reserve is about 15 -20 km from the project area. As the proj ect is confined to urban area of 
Coimbatore municipal corporation, none of the components are located in or close to biosphere 
reserve.  Noyyal river originates in a mountain range in the biosphere reserve. 
 
73. Coimbatore and surrounding region receives scant y rainfall, and Noyyal River forms an 
important ecological aspect for water resources. There are series of tanks/lakes (32 in all) to hold 
overflow of Noyyal river during northwest and southwest monsoon along Noyyal river in its course 
of over 170 km. These are interconnected tanks, some of which are located in Coimbatore.  The 
edible, freshwater teleost, Mystus vittatus (Bloch), the striped dwarf catfish, vernacularly called 
as ‘Pown keluthi’ is a fish variety cultured in major lakes in and around Coimbato re city. Twenty-
one species of fish have been recorded from six of the city lakes. 
 
74. A 2007 study by Sálim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History(SACON) in 14 
wetlands in the Coimbatore had recorded 12,000 birds, belonging to 54 species. Other studies, 
recorded around 133 species of birds representing 48 families and 16 orders around the city 
wetlands; most of the species were either wetland birds or wetland associated species. But the 
diversity and numbers in recent years has drastically reduced. According to Sivakumar T et al the 
following migratory birds were recorded at Kurichi Kulam (lake) in 2014: Little Crake, Water Cock, 

---PAGE BREAK---
56 
 
Black tailed Godwit, Marsh Sandpiper, Wood sandpiper, Grey Wagtail, Brown Shrike, Greenish 
Leaf Warbler, Orphean Warble r. None of the listed birds are protected or listed under the 
Schedule I of Wildlife Protection Act. The migratory season in the region generally spreads 
between July to January. 
 
75. Mammals that are usually encountered in the project area includes the domest ic cattle, 
cats and dogs. A study by Athira (2012) during the months of March and April 2012 around 
Ukkadam Lake documented Pipistrellus as the wide spread and dominant genus of bat in the 
study area. 
 
76. Chandrabose (1981) and Chandrabose and Nair (1988) bas ed on their study of over a 
decade have made a comprehensive account of the floral diversity; 159 species belonging to 51 
families across the Coimbatore city including the Noyyal River, its ponds and canals. Flora like 
Ceratophyllum demersum , Hydrilla vert icillata, Ipomoea aquatica , Nymphaea nouchali , 
Eichhornia crassipes  and Lemna paucicostataColocasia esculenta , Cyperus alopecuroides , 
Argemone mexicana , Chloris barbata , and Cleome chelidonii  are commonly observed in the 
wetlands. Predominant trees in the area are Banyan or Aala maram (Ficus benghalensis), Neem 
(Azadirachta indica ), the golden shower tree Cassia fistula  and Tamarind or Puliyamaram 
(Tamarindus indica). 
 
77. Subproject components are all located in urban land parcels surrounded by developed 
lands which were converted to agricultural and/or urban use many years ago, and therefore there 
are no sensitive environmental features in or near the subproject sites. Western ghats is at 5 km 
away from Vadavalli area , and no way disturbed due to  this project. Sálim Ali Centre for 
Ornithology and Natural History is located at Anaikatti, which is about 22 km from Vadavalli 
and 27 km from Veerakeralam. 
 
Figure 28:Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History [SACON] 
 
D. Economic Development : 
1. Land use 
78. The urban agglomeration of Coimbatore expanded from 38 km2 in 1973 to 79 km2in 1989 
and further to 274km 2 in 2011, registering over fivefold expansion, in less than four decades. In 
terms of spatial pattern, the city developed concentrically during the initial years and later into 
linear development along the major roads (Coimbatore Corporation City Development Plan 2006). 
A review of 2002 land use plan for the city indicated that nearly 75 per cent of land within the 
corporation limits had developed into urban land use, while the rest was classified as agricultural 
land, water bodies, vacant areas, and heritage sites. However, the network of manmade wetlands 
in Coimbatore that is its lifeline, contributes only 1.08% of the total area.Land-use/cover changes 
in Coimbatore City Corporation was studied by the German Technical Cooperation (GTZ) using 

---PAGE BREAK---
57 
 
Landsat ETM+ and Landsat 8 Operational Land Imager (OLI) and Thermal Infrared Sensor (TIRS) 
data for the period of 2003 -2014. Two Landsat images (obtained fromUSGS Earth Explorer)for 
theyears 2003 and 2014 were utilised. Maximum likelihood method was used to classify th e 
images into five classes: urban fabric, vegetation, water bodies, agriculture lands, and barren 
lands. Overall kappa accuracy measure is about to 87.60 and 86.15% for the years 2003 and 
2014, respectively. The change detection analysis has been performed for years 2003 and 2014 
postclassified images. The results of the study have indicated that Coimbatore City has 
experienced rapid modifications in LULC, particularly in terms of urban/built -up area. Over the 
past 11 years, urban/built-up areas have increased by 94.5 km2, resulting in a significant drop in 
the area of agricultural land and vegetation cover. It is found that:  
(i) urban areas are increased 200% due to population growth cum rapid economic 
progress.  
(ii) Vegetation cover decreased 38.76% due to conversion into urban features.  
(iii) Water bodies in area increased to 15.78% due to eradication of encroachment 
(iv) There is loss of 1.89% of agricultural lands due to demand for construction 
activities.  
(v) About 85.24% of barren lands were converted into other uses, particularly 57.33% 
to urban areas.  
(vi) Urban growth has accelerated towards north-eastern, northern, and eastern parts, 
where national highways exist. The built -up areas were dropped from 85.32 to 
22.28%, within 5-km distance from the city center. 
Figure 29: Map Showing Proposed land use plan for CMC 2021 
 
 
  

---PAGE BREAK---
58 
 
Figure 30: Proposed land use for Coimbatore LPA 2021 
 
 
 
Figure 31: Map Showing Land Use and Land Cover in the Project Area 
 
Source: Bhuvan 
Kavundampalayam 
Vadavalli 
Veerakeralam 
---PAGE BREAK---
59 
 
2. Industry  and  Agriculture 
79. Coimbatore city is a major commercial and business hub in the state of Tamil Nadu. It is 
the highest revenue yielding district in the state even ahead of Chennai, it is one of the fastest -
growing metro cities in India. Economy of Coimbatore is heavily influenced by industrial and 
service sectors: Information Technology, Engineering  and  Textiles. It is c alled the Manchester 
of South India due to its extensive textile industry, fed by the surrounding cotton fields. Rapi d 
growth of textile has helped growth of associated industries like manufacture of machinery and 
tools. Next to textiles, manufacture of mo tors and pumps for domestic and agricultural uses are 
taking place in small and large scale in and around Coimbatore city. Wet grinder cluster and pump 
set cluster are the 2 industrial parks in the district. The city is the second largest software producer 
in Tamil Nadu, next to Chennai. Tamil Nadu Government owned SIDCO industrial unit, which is 
located at Kurichi in Coimbatore, and houses a large number of small scale engineering units.The 
city has two special economic zones (SEZ), the Coimbatore Hi -Tech Infrastructure (CHIL) SEZ 
and the Tidel park Coimbatore.  On Maruthamalai Road via Vadavalli, renowned “Tamil Nadu 
Agricultural University  (TNAU)”is situated.TNAU assumed full responsibilities of Agricultural 
Education and Research and supported the State Agricultural Department by delivering research 
products. As Coimbatore known as ‘Manchester of South India’, Central Institute for Cotton 
Research, Regional Station, Coimbatore is located on the Maruthamalai Road Near Tamil Nadu 
Agricultural University abou t 8 km from the Coimbatore Railway Station and about 15kms from 
the Coimbatore Airport. Central Institute for Cotton Research, Coimbatore is affiliated to 
Bharathiar University and was established in the year 1967. 
 
80. Due to urbanization, the project area of Vadavalli and Veerakeralam has seen conversion 
of agriculture land for urban land use. Major Agricultural Crops cultivated in the region are 
Sorghum, Groundnut, Maize, Cowpea, Rice, Cotton. The most produced crop is  Sorghum and 
the highest productivity is found in Maize. 
 
3. Infrastructure 
81. Water Supply. There are two major sources of supply of drinking water to Coimbatore City: 
Siruvani and Pill ur schemes. These schemes are based on Siruvani and Pill ur Dam, which are 
located about 30-40 km from Coimbatore City. The corporation is maintaining the distribution of 
water supply. The entire supply of water from Siruvani is by nature of gravity whereas pumping is 
being done in the Pillur scheme. A separate scheme to augment th e Pillur water supply scheme 
to the Coimbatore Corporation is in progress.  There is another Koundampalayam -Vadavalli 
CWSS, which is also catering the water supply needs to Vadavalli area. 
 
82. The increase in population under the Corporation limits due to the territorial reorganization 
in July has resulted in increased demand for water. As per the norms based on the city’s 
population set by the Government of India, Coimbatore’s Corporation is required to provide 135 
liters per capita per day (lpcd) to the c itizens within the city limitswhereas the current capacity 
despite the schemes in place is 110 lpcd. This deficit gets aggravated especially during summer 
months before arrival of Monsoon rains. 
 
83. Sewerage. The existing underground sewerage system covers al most entire area of  
Coimbatore City Corporation limit prior to its expansion in 2011. This area is divided into 3 
sewerage zones.  Zone 1 forms the heart of the city and the sewage from this Zone (20.143 MLD) 
is pumped to the anaerobic lagoon STP at Vellalore. Zone 2 comprises original Corporation limits 
in North  and  West. Sewage collected from Zone II (16.62 MLD) is also pumped to the anaerobic 
lagoon at Vellalore. Zone 3covers Tatabad, Sivana nda colony, Gandhipuram, Sidhapu dur, 
---PAGE BREAK---
60 
 
Puliyakulam, Trichy road  and Ramanathapuram areas. Sewage from Zone III (23.625 MLD) is 
pretreated at Nanjundapuram pumping station and pumped to anaerobic lagoon at Vellalore. In 
2011, government through a notification included 3 municipalities (Kurichi, Kuniamuthur and 
Kavundampalayam) and 7 Town Panchayats (Chinnavedampatty, Kalapatti, Saravanampatti, 
Vellakinaru, Thudiyalur, Vadavalli, and Veerakeralam) and a village panchayat (Vilankurichi) in 
the Coimbatore Corporation limits, increasing the corporation area from 105.60 sq. km to 257.04 
sq. km. Municipal wards reorganized and increase from 72 to 100, with newly added areas 
constituting 40 wards. In the extended areas, in 14 wards (wards 87 to 100) of Kurichi and 
Kuniyamuthtur underground sewerage scheme with STP of 30 .53 MLD capacity and is 69,668 
House Service Connections is in progress. In this subproject area, at present there is no sewerage 
syatem exisiting and therefore it is proposed to provide sewerage system in the extended areas 
under this subproject areas of Vadavalli, Veerakeralam, Kavundampalayam and Thudiyalur. 
 
84. Solid Waste Management. The Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation (CCMC) is 
divided into different Zones and each Zone further divided into Sanitary Wards. Coimbatore city 
currently has four waste transfer stations, more than 3000 sanitary workers and about 650 acres 
of land being utilized for waste disposal.The waste management scenario in the city involves 
systematic management of waste from the households and other establishments. The waste 
generated in t he city is transported in closed containers and is managed through semi closed 
transfer stations comprising of hydraulic waste compression mechanism. The city presently 
generates around 815 TPD of municipal solid waste (MSW) having an average generation rate of 
600 gms/capita/day. The CCMC oversees the waste management in its 100 wards. CCMC 
collects around 775 TPD of MSW which accounts for almost 95% of collection efficiency. 
 
85. Transportation. The Coimbatore District has got well developed road infrastructure 
connecting various important neighboring towns like Pollachi, Valparai and Metupalayam. 
Coimbatore city is internally well connected through the large network of roads maintained by the 
Corporation. The NH 47 and NH 209 runs through the proj ect area.The Coimbatore Junction 
(Railway Station) is connected to all the major Indian cities – Chennai, Bangalore, Indore, Bhopal, 
Gwalior, Jabalpur, New Delhi and Mumbai. It also connects the neighboring State of Kerala. The 
city has an airport (Coimbatore Airport) at Peelamedu (11 km from the city) and an air-force base 
at Sulur (15 km). Coimbatore airport caters to domestic flights to all the major Indian cities and 
international flights to Sharjah and Singapore. 
 
E. Socio-Cultural Resources 
1. Demography 
86. Project area consisting of eastwhile Vadavalli, Veerakeralamand Thudiyalur town 
panchayatsand Kavundampalayam Municipality were  added to Coimbatore City municipal area 
in the year 2011, and therefore the 2011 census population and demographic details are available 
separately for old Coimbatore city municipal corporation and the two town panchayats .  As 
presented in the following Table, project area is experiencing tremendous population growth, 
while population core city of Coimbatore is slower than the overal l state population. This shows 
the rapid expansion of city into outer areas from the congested core city.  Literacy rate is about 
90%. 
  
---PAGE BREAK---
61 
 
Table 27: Demographic Characteristics (2011 Census) 
Demographic Parameters Tamil Nadu 
Coimbatore 
(Old MC 
area) 
Vadavalli 
Town 
panchayat 
Veera-
keralam 
Town 
panchayat 
Kavundam-
palayam Thudiyalur 
Population (2011) 72,147,030 1,050,721 39,873 23,841 83,908 33,924 
GeographicalArea(sq.km) 130,060 105.60 13.00 5.80 10.50 8.70 
Total households 18,462,231 282,839 10,824 6,536 22,155 9,223 
Decadal Growth rate (2001 -
11) 15.61% 12.9% 60.9% 19.2% 73.81% 61.51% 
Sex ratio 996 997 1,000 1,012 981 983 
Population Density (per sq. 
km) 555 9,950 3,725 4,111 7,991 3,899 
Household size 3.9 3.7 3.7 3.6 3.8 3.7 
literacy rate 80.09% 91.30% 89.76% 89.98% 89.88% 91.38% 
literacy rate (male) 86.77% 94.46% 93.04% 93.49% 93.10% 94.71% 
literacy rate (female) 73.73% 88.15% 86.49% 86.51% 86.62% 88.02% 
SC Population 20.01% 10.3% 8.91% 8.62% 9.10% 11.40% 
ST Population 1.1% 0.1% 0.58% 0.02% 0.13% 0.08% 
Work participation ratio 
(among total population) 45.58% 45% 38.72% 42.41% 42.55% 41.72% 
Work participation ratio – 
male 59.31% 68% 56.61% 60.72% 61.51% 60.27% 
Work participation ratio - 
female 31.8% 22% 20.84% 24.33% 23.23% 22.85% 
Main workers (among total 
workers) 85% 94.6% 91.54% 86.63% 91.36% 91.42% 
Marginal workers (among 
total workers) 15% 5.4% 8.46% 13.37% 8.64% 8.58% 
Cultivators (among main 
workers) 12.9% 0.4% 1.02% 0.71% 1.02% 1.76% 
Agricultural Laborers 
(among main workers) 29.2% 0.7% 2.75% 7.38% 0.63% 3.48% 
HH industry workers (among 
main workers) 4.1% 2.9% 2.53% 2.23% 3.06% 2.47% 
Other workers (among main 
workers) 53.7% 96.0% 93.70% 89.68% 95.29% 92.29% 
2. History, Culture and Tourism 
87. Though the origin of Coimbatore is shrouded in legend it has been established that Chola 
and Vijiayanagar Kings and Tippu Sultan were associated with its history. The early name of 
Coimbatore city was ‘Kovanpatti’, meaning the hamlet of Kovan, the chieftain of Irula Tribes. The 
---PAGE BREAK---
62 
 
Perur temple inscriptions (12th century) described the town as the Kovanpudur, a hamlet in Perur 
Nadu. Gradually the name Kovanpudur got changed and Koyampudur came to be used. During 
the British period, due to the difficulty in pronunciation, the officials have recorded the name as 
Coimbatore. 
 
88. Coimbatore in its present form was organized by the British in the early 19th century. 
Though the region developed as a sound agrarian’s economy, Coimbatore came to be known for 
its industrial enterprises and in the process, it is called the 'Manchester of South India' and the 
'Detroit of India'. Industrialization of the region began in 1888 and continued into the 20th century. 
The city experienced a textile boom in 1920s and 1930s due to the decline of the Cotton industry 
in Mumbai. The region played a significant role in the Indian independence movement. In 1981, 
Coimbatore was constituted as a corporation. 
 
89. Sukrawarpet and Range Gowder Street in the city is known for its old buildings, and other 
notable places include Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Forest College, GASS Forest Museum, 
Victoria Hall, Sarvajana Higher Secondary School (where Rabindranath Tagore himself had come 
and sung the National Anthem in 1926). However, none of these are located in the subproject 
areas. There are no Archaeological Survey of India or state protected monuments in the project 
region. The nearest protected monument (Mandapakadu  (10.94796944 N, 77.0514555 6 E) is 
located around 18 kmaerial distance from the project area. 26 km from Vadavalli, 22 km from 
Veerakeralam and 24 km from Koundampalayam.  
 
Figure 32: Nearest Archaeological Survey of India Protected Monument 
 
18 
km 
Thudiyalur 
Kaoundampalayam Vadavalli 
Veerakeralam 
Monument : 
Mandapakkadu 
10° 56′ 52.69″ N, 77° 3′ 5.24″ E 
Location     : 
Chettipalayam 
District        : Coimbatore 
State           : Tamilnadu 
ASI Circle   : Chennai 
18 
km 
---PAGE BREAK---
63 
 
F. Sub-project Site Environmental Features : 
90. Features of the selected subproject sites are presented in the following table. 
Table 28: Site Environmental Features – Zone V (Vadavalli & Veerakeralam areas) 
Infrastructure Location and Environment Features Site Photograph 
Sewage 
Treatment 
Plant 
Sewage Treatment Plant: 
Site is located between Latitude 
11.001795 North & Longitude 
76.9388 East, near the burial ground 
and crematorium of the corporation at 
Chokkampudur, in south zone of 
Coimbatore corporation. Total land 
area is 16.52 acres, of which 4 acres 
allotted for construction of STP. This 
land is owned by Coimbatore 
Corporation. 
Allotted site is presently vacant, and 
covered with shrubs and bushes of local 
species. Site is a low lying area on 
southern side of Kumaraswamy Lake, 
outlet of which leading to Noyyal 
River.There are no trees present in the 
site. Crematorium is functional, and is 
provided with compound wall.The STP 
is proposed to be constructed in the 
vacant land allotted by the CCMC, after 
reserving the land for crematorium and 
other purposes. (Demarked sketch is 
annexed herewith).Compound wall has 
been proposed for a height of 2.5m for 
the STP.Enter upon permission has 
been granted by the Commissioner of 
CCMC.Site is surrounded with some 
commercial buildings and new 
developments, mostly residential, can 
be observed all around the site (about 
250 m away), except in the north, 
wherein there is corporation road and 
then lake.  This corporation road is the 
access to the STP site. At present 
within the CCMC site, the STP site is 
accessible via internal roads near 
crematorium/burial ground and from the 
Compost yard. The road near 
crematorium is narrow (about 3-4 m 
wide), abutted with graves, and used 
primarily by general public for 
crematorium purposes. Hence may not 
be suitable for using as access road to 
STP construction or operation. 
  
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
64 
 
Infrastructure Location and Environment Features Site Photograph 
Therefore, it is proposed to use road 
next to compost plant as an access with 
necessary clearance upto STP site. The 
access road alignment will be finalized 
by the PIU prior to start of works. 
 
The new STP will also be located 15m 
away from the boundary wall and 115 
m and 195 m away from the 
Crematorium and burial ground 
respectively. Given the SBR based 
modern STP, odor nuisance will be 
minimal, however, at least a 100 m 
buffer will be maintained.  Northern 
side of the site is fully lake area.On the 
South-Eastern side SBOA School is at 
adistance of about 300m. Odour 
Control measures will be taken as 
required.Treated water from the STP 
will be disposed into surplus weir 
outlet streamof Kumaraswamy 
Lakewhich flows to SelvaChinthamani 
Kulam and thereon to Periya kulam 
finally into the River Noyyal 
Sewage 
Pumping 
Stations 
1. Main Pumping Station at 
Chokkampudur: This is the main 
pumping station – sewage from lift / 
pump stations will be collected here 
and conveyed to STP.  Apart from 
green belt provision, mechanical 
odour control device has also been 
proposed. 
Site is selected within the STP site  
which lies betwee n Latitude 
11.001795 North & Longitude 
76.9388 East. Land required is about 
660 sqm which will be accommodated 
in the STP site of 5 acres. 
This site including STP site has been 
identified to involve hard rock 
requiring controlled blasting for 
excavation. The procedure 
proposedby TWAD Board in carrying 
out controlled blasting is provided in 
Appendix. 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
65 
 
Infrastructure Location and Environment Features Site Photograph 
Sewage 
Pumping 
Stations 
2. Sewage Pumping Station at 
Vadavalli StreamCrossing : 
Site is located on the Maruthamalai 
Roadbetween Latitude 11.023225 
North & Longitude 76.912414 East,  
with sparse development. In this site, 
burial ground with cremation facility 
and entirely covered with compound 
wall and gate. South -East corner of 
the site is vacant and covered with 
shrubs and bushes. Site is not low -
lying or flood prone and is adjacent to 
the stream on eatern boundary and 
Maruthamalai Road on southern 
boundary.This land is owned by 
Coimbatore Corporation.  Land 
required/available is about 660 sqm 
However, other measures – design  
and  operation, green buffer etc., will 
be required to prevent any odor 
issues.Apart from green belt 
provision, mechanical odour control 
device has also been proposed. 
 
Sewage Lift 
Stations 
 
 
1. SLS at Kamatchi Nagar, near 
I.O.B.Colony : 
Lift station consists of a small 
closed underground sump to 
collect the sewage, fitted with 
submersible pumps, and an 
electricity panel board above the 
ground. A vent pipe will be fixed to 
the sump to release accumulated 
gases.  
The sewage will be collected in the 
sump and pumped to nearest sewer 
manhole.  
This LS site is located between 
Latitude 11.034638North & Longitude 
76.870917 East within a residential 
area surrounded by houses (<10 m)  
on one side. The other three sides are 
vacant land and stream. This land is 
owned by Coimbatore 
Corporation.Land required/available 
is about 216 sqm . Apart from green 
belt provision, mechanical odour 
control device has also been 
proposed. 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
66 
 
Infrastructure Location and Environment Features Site Photograph 
 2. SLS at Onappalayam Burial 
Ground on Thondamuthur Road 
(Opp. To Sowdeswari College) 
Lift station consists of a small 
closed underground sump to 
collect the sewage, fitted with 
submersible pumps, and an 
electricity panel board above the 
ground. A vent pipe will be fixed to 
the sump to release accumulated 
gases.  
This LS site is locatedbetw een 
Latitude 11.010645 North & Longitude 
76.873703 Eastwithin the burial 
ground of Corporation covered with 
compound wall and LS site is 
bounded by an stream on southern / 
western sides; burial ground on 
eastern side and a commercial 
building on northern si de 15 m away. 
This land is owned by Coimbatore 
Corporation. Land required/available 
is about 216 sqm. Apart from green 
belt provision, mechanical odour 
control device has also been 
proposed. 
 
Sewage Lift 
Stations 
 
 
3. SLS at Sundapalayam near 
drainage crossing (SMR Nagar) 
 
This LS site is located between 
Latitude 10.999587 North & Longitude 
76.877178 East corporation land / 
stream poromboke (pallavaari).   It is 
not a waterbody anymore. On the 
Southern side lies a vacant open land. 
The Eastern side & Northern side is 
bounded by anstream with residential 
building on the Western side at a 
distance of 10 m.The access to this 
site is f rom the Corporation road on 
the Southrn side. This land is owned 
by Coimbatore Corporation. Land 
required/available is about 216/242 
sqm respectively. Apart from green 
belt provision, mechanical odour 
control device has also been 
proposed. 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
67 
 
Infrastructure Location and Environment Features Site Photograph 
 4. SLS at Sri Ram Garden (Jothi 
Park Lands) 
 
This LS is situated in reserve site of 
Sri Ram Garden lies locatedbetween 
Latitude 11.008143 North & Longitude 
76.89148 East. On the Southern side 
& Western side  residential buildings 
are found at a distance of 10 m.. Th e 
Eastern side is bounded by 
anstream& Northern side with Road 
from which the PS can be accessed. 
This land is owned by Coimbatore 
Corporation. Land required/available 
is about 216sqm. Apart from green 
belt provision, mechanical odour 
control device has al so been 
proposed. 
 
 5. SLS at Maharani Avenue Phase 
IV 
 
This LS is situated in reserve site of 
Maharani Avenue, locatedbetween 
Latitude 11.018109 North & Longitude 
76.901429 East. 
On the Eastern side lies a vacant 
open land. The Western side & 
Northern side is bounded by an Road 
and the Southern Side, Coconut farm 
with residential building at a distance 
of 50 m. This land is owned by 
Coimbatore Corporation. Land 
required/available is about 216 sqm. 
Apart from green belt provision, 
mechanical odour control device has 
also been proposed. 
 
 6. SLS at Lawyers’ Colony/ GKS 
Avenue 
 
This LS is situated in reserve site of 
GKS Avenue lies locatedbetween 
Latitude 11.018404 North & Longitude 
76.88754 East.The provided lift 
station site is surrounded by large 
vaccant land on all the four sides. This 
land is owned by Coimbatore 
Corporation. The access to this site is 
from the Corporation road on the 
Southrn side. Land required/available 
is about 202 sqm. Apart from green 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
68 
 
Infrastructure Location and Environment Features Site Photograph 
belt provisio n, mechanical odour 
control device has also been 
proposed. 
 
Sewage Lift 
Stations 
 
 
7. SLS at Pothigai Residency 
 
This LS is lies between Latitude 
11.043311 North & Longitude 
76.864473 EastThe Southern side. & 
Eastern side is bounded by road. On 
the Northern & Western side 
Maruthamalai Bus stand. Land 
required/available is about 130 sqm. 
This land is owned by Coimbatore 
Corporation. Apart from green belt 
provision, mechanical odour cont rol 
device has also been proposed. 
 
Effluent 
Disposal 
Outfall Sewer 
 
Treated effluent from the STP is 
disposed  in the outlet stream of 
Kumarasamy Lake which lies 
between Latitude 11.000941 North & 
Longitude 76.564887 East. 
It is not sewer network, just effluent 
disposal pumping main from the 
STP site, running upto this stream. 
 
Treated Effulent disposed from STP to 
this stream (the other end of sluice) by 
means of Pumping main of 400 mm DI 
Pipe for 1.5 Km. The streamflows to 
Selva Chinthamani Kulam  at a 
distance of 2.5 Kms and thereon to 
Periyakulam at Ukkadam at a 
distance of 5.5 kms from the point of 
disposal.This is a broad stream (> 3m) 
with lining. Stream is owned and 
maintained by Coimbatore 
Corporation. Carrying capaci ty of the 
stream: 290 cusec. Current flow in this 
stream: 110 cusec (during heavy 
rainfall). Proposed flow from STP:  
3.59 cusec (6114lpm) 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
69 
 
Figure 33 :Site Set out Plans – Zone V (Vadavalli & Veerakeralam) 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
70 
 
Figure 34 :Site Set out Plans – Zone V (Onnampalayam) 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
71 
 
 
Figure 35 :Site Set out Plans – Zone V (Near Sundaram palayam drainage crossing) 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
72 
 
 
Figure 36 :Site Set out Plans – Zone V (Sri Ram Gardens) 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
73 
 
 
Figure 37 :Site Set out Plans – Zone V (Vadavalli Stream Crossing) 
 
 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
74 
 
Figure 38 : Site Set out Plans – Zone V (Maharani Avenue) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
75 
 
Figure 39 : Site Set out Plans – Zone V (GKS Avenue) 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
76 
 
Figure 40 : Site Set out Plans – Zone V (Maharani Avenue) 
 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
77 
 
Figure 41:Site Set out Plans – Zone VII (Siva Csatle) 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
78 
 
Figure 42:Site Set out Plans – Zone VII (Lakshmi Garden) 
 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
79 
 
Figure 43:Site Set out Plans – Zone VII (Easwaran Nagar) 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
80 
 
 
 
Figure 44:Site Set out Plans – Zone VII (Cheran Colony) 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
81 
 
 
Table 29 : Details of Land in Vadavalli & Veerakeralam Areas 
Sl. 
No. 
Component Land Proposals Set backs Remarks 
LiftStation 
/ Pumping 
Station 
Location Ownership Classificati
on 
Available 
(m2) 
Required 
(m2) 
Modules 
(m2) 
Path
ways 
(m2) 
Green 
Belts 
(m2) 
Within the 
Land Outside Land  
1 MPS 1 
Chokkampudur 
(near Burial 
Ground) 
(T.S.No.39) 
Corporation 
Land 
Reserved 
Site for 
public 
purpose 
66854 2430 900 210 1320 
2.0m from 
the lift -well 
on the 
North side 
5m on the 
west side, 
5m on the 
south side 
and 5m on 
the 
Eastern 
side. 
Burial Ground  is 
located on 
Eastern side and 
Coimbatore 
Corporation 
Waste Dumpsite 
is located on the 
Northern side. 
There is no 
development in 
the Southern side 
and Western side 
(vacant) 
Sufficient space 
is available to 
provide a buffer 
of 5m all around 
the units. Three 
rows of trees 
will be planted 
to provide a 
green buffe r 
with provision 
for compound 
wall on all the 
four sides.  
2 SPS1 
Vadavalli Stream 
(Drainage) 
Crossing 
(S.F.No.60) 
Corporation 
Land Poromboke 660 660 150 70 440  
2m away 
from the 
lift-well on 
the north 
side,and 
East side 
9m on the 
west, 22m 
on the 
south side. 
Buildings are 
lcoated on the 
Western side , 
which is 20 m 
away from the 
well. The Eastern 
side is bounded 
by  an stream, 
Northern Side by 
Burial Ground 
Cremetorium and 
Southern side 
bounded by a 
road. 
It is proposed to 
provide Trees 
on the open 
space 
area,leaving out 
the spce for Lift 
Station. 
3 
Lift station 
1 / Zone 
5A 
Kamatchi Nagar 
(IOB colony near 
Maruthamalai) 
(S.F.No.618) 
Corporation 
Land 
Reserved 
Site for 
public 
purpose 
216 216 13 12 191 
2.0m on 
the north 
and 13.0m 
on the 
east side, 
2m on the 
The Western 
side is covered 
with a vacant 
land. The 
Northern side is 
bounded by an 
The Well is 
proposed on 
the South-West 
side  away from 
the residential 
area. 
---PAGE BREAK---
82 
 
Sl. 
No. 
Component Land Proposals Set backs Remarks 
LiftStation 
/ Pumping 
Station 
Location Ownership Classificati
on 
Available 
(m2) 
Required 
(m2) 
Modules 
(m2) 
Path
ways 
(m2) 
Green 
Belts 
(m2) 
Within the 
Land Outside Land  
western 
side and 
7.5m on 
the south 
side from 
the lift-well 
streamand 
Southern side by 
a Road. On the 
Eastern side 
residential 
Buildings are 
located at a 
distance iof 10m. 
Plantations will 
be provided on 
all sides. 
4 
LIFT 
STATION 
2 / Zone 
5B 
Onappalayam 
(Thondamuthur 
Road Burial ground 
near Sowdeswari 
college) 
(S.F.No.734) 
Corporation 
Land 
Reserved 
Site for 
public 
purpose 
216 216 13 12 191 
7.0m on 
the west 
and 2m on 
the east, 
12.5m on 
the South 
and 2m on 
the north 
side from 
the 
proposed 
lift-well. 
The Southern 
side. & Northern 
side is bounded 
by vacant land 
On the Western 
side lies the 
burial Ground 
and the Eastern 
side is private 
land. 
A green Buffer 
will be provided 
on all sides, with 
two rows of 
Tree plantations 
with in the 
compound wall. 
5 
LIFT 
STATIO
N 3 / 
Zone 5C 
Sundapalayam 
near drainage 
Crossing (SMR 
Nagar) 
(S.F.No.445) 
Corporation 
Land 
Stream 
Poramboke  242.40 216 13 12 217.40 
2m on the 
north and 
15m on the 
east side, 
2m on the 
western 
side and 
7.7m on 
the south 
side from 
the 
proposed 
lift-well. 
On the Northern 
side lies a vacant 
open land. The 
Eastern side is 
bounded by 
anstreamwith 
residential 
building on the 
Western side at a 
distance of 10 m 
and Southern 
side bounded by 
road. 
It is proposed to 
cover the Lift 
Station with 
green 
plantations on 
all sides. 
---PAGE BREAK---
83 
 
Sl. 
No. 
Component Land Proposals Set backs Remarks 
LiftStation 
/ Pumping 
Station 
Location Ownership Classificati
on 
Available 
(m2) 
Required 
(m2) 
Modules 
(m2) 
Path
ways 
(m2) 
Green 
Belts 
(m2) 
Within the 
Land Outside Land  
6 
LIFT 
STATIO
N 4 / 
Zone 5D 
Sri Ram Garden 
near Ajjanur – 
Jothi Park Lands 
(S.F.No.382, 
383/1,2,4) 
Corporation 
Land 
Reserved 
Site for 
public 
purpose 
216  216 13 12  191  
6m on the 
South and 
12.5m on 
the 
northern 
side, 2.0m 
on the 
western 
side and 
7m on the 
Eastern 
side from 
the 
proposed 
lift-well. 
On the Southern 
side & Western 
side  residential 
buildings are 
located at a 
distance of 10 m. 
The Eastern side 
is bounded by 
anstream 
(stream)& 
Northern side 
vacant land 
bounded with a 
Road. 
A green Buffer 
will be provided 
on all sides,with 
two rows of 
Tree plantations 
with in the 
compound wall 
7 
LIFT 
STATIO
N 5 / 
Zone 5F 
Maharani Avenue – 
Phase IV (S.F.No. 
225pt, 231/2pt, 
232pt & 233pt) 
Corporation 
Land 
Reserved 
Site for 
public 
purpose 
216  216 13 12  191  
2m on the 
South and 
7m on the 
northern 
side, 4m 
on the 
western 
side and 
5m on the 
Eastern 
side from 
the lit-well. 
On the Eastern 
side lies a vacant 
open land 
bounded by a 
Community Hall 
at a distance of 
40m. The 
Western side & 
Northern side is 
bounded by a 
Road and the 
Southern Side, 
Coconut farm 
with residential 
building at a 
distance of 50 m. 
A green Buffer 
will be provided 
on all sides, with 
two rows of 
Tree plantations 
with in the 
compound wall 
---PAGE BREAK---
84 
 
Sl. 
No. 
Component Land Proposals Set backs Remarks 
LiftStation 
/ Pumping 
Station 
Location Ownership Classificati
on 
Available 
(m2) 
Required 
(m2) 
Modules 
(m2) 
Path
ways 
(m2) 
Green 
Belts 
(m2) 
Within the 
Land Outside Land  
8 
LIFT 
STATION 
6 / Zone 
5G 
GKS Avenue 
(S.F.No.348/2) 
Corporation 
Land 
Reserved 
Site for 
public 
purpose 
243 216 13 12 107 
2m on the 
South and 
12.5m on 
the 
northern 
side, 4m 
on the 
western 
side and 
5m on the 
Eastern 
side from 
the lift -
well. 
The provided Lift 
Station site is 
bounded by 
residential 
buildings at a 
distance of 50m  
on Eastern and 
Western sides 
and vaccant land 
on Northern side 
and road on the 
Southern side.  
Green 
plantations will 
be provided on 
all sides to 
provide a green 
buffer 
9 
LIFT 
STATIO
N 7 / 
Zone 5H 
Pothigai Residency 
& CTC Depot 
junction @ Marutha 
malai (S.F.421) 
Corporation 
Land 
Reserved 
Site for 
public 
purpose 
130 130 11 12 107 
2m on the 
North and 
5.7m on 
the 
Southern 
side, 2m 
on the 
western 
side and 
8.7m on 
the 
Eastern 
side from 
the lift -
well. 
The Southern 
side. & Eastern 
side is bounded 
by road.  On the 
Northern & 
Western side 
bounded by 
Maruthamalai 
Bus stand. 
As there is only 
limited space, 
Green 
plantations will 
be provided in 
the available 
space to 
provide a green 
buffer 
---PAGE BREAK---
85 
 
Sl. 
No. 
Component Land Proposals Set backs Remarks 
LiftStation 
/ Pumping 
Station 
Location Ownership Classificati
on 
Available 
(m2) 
Required 
(m2) 
Modules 
(m2) 
Path
ways 
(m2) 
Green 
Belts 
(m2) 
Within the 
Land Outside Land  
10 STP 
Chokkampudur 
(near Burial 
Ground) 
 
(T.S.No.39) 
Coimbatore 
Corporation class 16.52 4 2 1 1 
The STP 
will be 
located 
near  the 
Burial 
Ground. 
and Waste 
Dumpsite. 
Burial Ground  is 
located on 
Eastern side and 
Coimbatore 
Corporation 
Waste Dumpsite 
is located on the 
Northern side. 
There is no 
development on 
the Southern side 
and Western side  
(vacant) 
The STP will be 
located 50m 
from the Electric 
Cremetorium. 
The Treated 
water will be let 
into the Outlet of 
Kumarasamy 
Lake 
(Muthannan 
Kulam) at a 
distance of 1.50 
km through 400 
mm DI pipe. 
Table 30 : Details of Lift Station Land in Kavundampalayam, Thudiyalur & Vellakinar (Part) Areas 
S.
No
. 
Component Land Proposals  Set backs Remarks 
(LIFT 
STATION/ 
PS) 
Location Owner
ship 
Classificatio
n 
Available 
(m2) 
Required 
(m2) 
Modules 
(m2) 
Pathways 
(m2) 
Green 
Belts 
(m2) 
Within the 
Land Outside Land  
1 MPS 1 
Compost 
Yard at 
Kavundampa
layam 
Coimb
atore 
Corpo
ration 
 94490 2430 900 210 1320 
5.0m on the 
North side 
5m on the 
west side, 
5m on the 
south side 
and 5m on 
the Eastern 
side. 
Compost yard 
and Solar Plant 
are located  on 
the Southern 
side, 
Residential 
buildings are 
located on the 
Western sideat  
a distance of  
100m, Muslim 
Burial Ground 
is located on 
the Northern 
side and 
Sanganoor 
Sufficient 
space is 
available to 
provide a 
buffer of 
4m all 
around the 
units..  
---PAGE BREAK---
86 
 
S.
No
. 
Component Land Proposals  Set backs Remarks 
(LIFT 
STATION/ 
PS) 
Location Owner
ship 
Classificatio
n 
Available 
(m2) 
Required 
(m2) 
Modules 
(m2) 
Pathways 
(m2) 
Green 
Belts 
(m2) 
Within the 
Land Outside Land  
Pallam on the 
Eastern side 
2 PS1 Cheran 
Colony 
Coimb
atore 
Corpo
ration 
Reserved Site 
for public 
purpose 
957 660 150 70 740  
3.0m from 
the well on 
the North 
side 5m on 
the west 
side, 10.2m 
on the south 
side and 
11.7m on 
the Eastern 
side. 
Corporation 
Park site is 
located on 
Eastern side 
and Residential 
area is located 
on the 
Southern side  
and Western 
side, Northern 
side  is 
bounded by a 
Road. 
Sufficient 
space is 
available to 
provide a 
buffer of 
4m all 
around the 
units.  
3 
LIFT 
STATION 
1 / Zone 
VII B 
Siva Castle 
Coimb
atore 
Corpo
ration 
Reserved Site 
for public 
purpose 
1610 244 13 12 219 
7m on the 
north and 
2m on the 
east side, 
9m on the 
western side 
and 10.8m 
on the south 
side from 
the  suction 
well 
The Eastern 
side is covered 
by a vacant 
land. The 
Northern side. 
is bounded by a 
Road at a 
distance of 
57m. On the 
Western side 
residential 
Buildings are 
located at a 
distance of 
20m. & 
Southern side 
at a distance of 
100m. 
The Well is 
proposed 
on the 
South-East 
side,  away 
from the 
residential 
area. 
Green 
plantations 
will be 
provided 
on all 
sides. 
---PAGE BREAK---
87 
 
S.
No
. 
Component Land Proposals  Set backs Remarks 
(LIFT 
STATION/ 
PS) 
Location Owner
ship 
Classificatio
n 
Available 
(m2) 
Required 
(m2) 
Modules 
(m2) 
Pathways 
(m2) 
Green 
Belts 
(m2) 
Within the 
Land Outside Land  
4 
LIFT 
STATION 
2 / Zone 
VII D 
Lakshmi 
Garden 
Coimb
atore 
Corpo
ration 
Reserved Site 
for public 
purpose 
2500  244 13 12 219 
9m on the 
west and 2m 
on the east, 
10.5m on 
the South 
and 7m on 
the north 
side from 
the well.  
On the Western 
side residential 
Buildings are 
located at a 
distance of 
20m. On all the 
other sides it is 
vacant land  
A green 
Buffer of 
4m will be 
provided 
on all 
sides,with 
two rows of 
Tree 
plantations 
with in the 
compound 
wall. 
5 
LIFT 
STATION 
3 / Zone 
VII E 
Easwaran 
Nagar, 
Kanuvai 
Road 
Coimb
atore 
Corpo
ration 
Reserved Site 
for public 
purpose 
244 244 13 12 219  
5m on the 
north and 
6m on the 
South side, 
3m on the 
western side 
and 12.5m 
on the East 
side from 
the well 
The Western 
side & 
Southern side 
are bounded by 
a Road and 
Eastern side by 
a Well. On the 
Northern side 
Residential 
Buildings were 
located. 
As there is 
only limited 
space, it is 
proposed 
to cover the 
Lift Station 
with green 
plantations 
on all 
sides. 
6 STP 
Compost 
Yard at 
Kavundam
palayam 
Corpo
ration 
Reser
ved 
site 
Reserved site 
for public 
purpose 
23.35 4.75 2 1 1.75 
The STP will 
be located 
50m from 
the 
Compost 
Yard 
Compost yard 
and Solar Plant 
are located  on 
the Southern 
side, 
Residential 
area is located 
on the Western 
sideat a 
distance of  
100m, Muslim 
Burial Ground 
is located on 
The STP 
will be 
located 
50m from 
the 
Compost 
Yard. The 
Treated 
effluent will 
be let into 
the 
Sanganoor 
Pallam 
---PAGE BREAK---
88 
 
S.
No
. 
Component Land Proposals  Set backs Remarks 
(LIFT 
STATION/ 
PS) 
Location Owner
ship 
Classificatio
n 
Available 
(m2) 
Required 
(m2) 
Modules 
(m2) 
Pathways 
(m2) 
Green 
Belts 
(m2) 
Within the 
Land Outside Land  
the Northern 
side and 
Sanganoor 
Pallam/stream 
on the Eastern 
side 
stream at a 
distance of 
0.50 km 
through 
700                                                                                      
mm D I 
pipe. 
---PAGE BREAK---
89 
 
Table 31: Site Environmental Features–ZoneVII (Kavundampalayam & Thudiyalur) 
Infrastructure Location and Environment Features Site Photograph 
Sewage 
Treatment 
Plant 
Sewage Treatment Plant: 
Site is located between Latitude 
11.036083° North & Longitude 76. 94935° 
East, within the Compost Yard Premises of 
Corporation land at Kavundampalayam, in 
West zone of Coimbatore Corporation. 
Total land area is 10 acres, of which 5 
acres allotted for construction of STP. This 
land is owned by Coimbatore 
Corporation.Necessary ‘Enter upon’ 
permission has been granted by the 
Commissioner, CCMC. 
 
Allotted site is partly used for Solid waste 
management (Compost yard), Solar Plant, 
Muslim Burial Ground and partly covered 
with shrubs and bushes of local species. 
 
 The site is adequately away from the 
surrounding residential areas. Site is a low 
lying area on western side of the Sanganur 
Stream. outlet of which leading to Noyyal 
River. Carrying capacity of the stream- 
13485 cusec. 
 
The new STP will also be located a way 
from the boundary wall. Given the SBR 
based modern STP, odor nuisance will be 
minimal, however, at least a 100 m buffer 
will be maintained. 
 
Treated water from the STP will be 
disposed into the Sanganur Stream 
whichjoins Noyyal River  at a distance of 
11.48 km from the point of disposal. 
  
 
Sewage 
Pumping 
Stations 
1.Main Pumping Station at 
Kavundampalayam Compost Yard : 
 This is the main pumping station – 
sewage from lift / pump stations will be 
collected here and conveyed to STP. 
Site is selected within the STP site  which 
lies between Latitude 11.036083 North & 
Longitude 76.94935 East. Land required is 
about 660 sq .m whi ch will be 
accommodated in the STP site of 5 acres. 
This site including STP site has been 
identified to involve hard rock requiring 
controlled blasting for excavation. The 
procedure followed by TWAD Board in 
carrying out controlled blasting is provided 
in Appendix. Apart from green belt 
provision, mechanical odour control device 
has also been proposed. 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
90 
 
Infrastructure Location and Environment Features Site Photograph 
Sewage 
Pumping 
Stations 
2. Sewage Pumping Station at Cheran 
Colony 
The LS site is locatedbetween Latitude 
11.077364 North & Longitude 76.94 4613 
Eastin Cheran Colony. The site is vacant. 
Residences found on the Southern side 
and Western side. Easternside  is covered 
with a vacant land  and Northern side by 
Road. This land is owned by Coimbatore 
Corporation. Land required /available is 
about 930/2745 sqm respectively .Apart 
from green belt provision, mechanical 
odour control device has also been 
proposed. 
 
 
Sewage Lift 
Stations 
 
 
1. SLS at Lakshmi Garden 
Lift station consists of a small closed 
underground sump to collect the sewage, 
fitted with submersible pumps, and an 
electricity panel board above the ground. A 
vent pipe will be fixed to the sump to 
release accumulated gases. 
 
The sewage will be collected in the sump 
and pumped to nearest sewer manhole. 
This SLS is situated in reserve site of 
Lakshmi Gardens, locatedbetween 
Latitude 11.054514 North & Longitude 
76.950496 East is covered partly with 
shrubs and is located within a residential 
area. The Western side is bounded by a 
Railway Track. On the eastern side 
residential Buildings are found at a 
distance of 15m. & Northern side at a 
distance of 100m. On the Southern side 
vacant land is found. This land is owned by 
Coimbatore Corporation. Land 
required/available is about 216 sqm. Apart 
from green belt provision, mechanical 
odour control device has also been 
proposed. 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
91 
 
Infrastructure Location and Environment Features Site Photograph 
 
2. SLS at Siva Castle 
Public consultation has already been 
carried out and neither adverse comments 
nor objections regarding this site. 
Lift station consists of a small closed 
underground sump to collect the sewage, 
fitted with submersible pumps, and an 
electricity panel board above the ground. A 
vent pipe will be fixed to the sump to 
release accumulated gases.  
 
This SLS is situated in reserve site Siva 
Castle, locatedbetween Latitude 
11.063409 North & Longitude 76.948645 
East. 
This SLS site is a vacant land of 
Corporation covered with compound 
wall.LS  site is bounded by Residential 
buildings on three sides about 15 m away 
and vacant land on the eastern 
side.Necessary Green buffer andodour 
control measures to be provided  . Land 
required/available is about 216 sqm. Apart 
from green belt provision, mechanical 
odour control d evice has also been 
proposed. 
 
 3. SLS at Easwaran Nagar 
Lift station consists of a small closed 
underground sump to collect the sewage, 
fitted with submersible pumps, and an 
electricity panel board above the ground. A 
vent pipe will be fixed to the sump to 
release accumulated gases.  
 
This LS is situated in reserve site of 
Easwaran Nagar, locatedbetween Latitude 
11.082806 North & Longitude 76.936478 
East. 
 
This LS site is covered partly with 
shrubsThe Eastern side & Northern side is 
bounded by a Road and Western side by a 
Well. On the Southern side Residential 
Buildings were found  This land is owned 
by Coimbatore Corporation. Land 
required/available is about 216 sqm .Apart 
from green belt provision, mechanical 
odour control device has also been 
proposed. 
 
 
Effluent 
Disposal 
Outfall Sewer 
Treated effluent from the STP is disposed  
in the Sanganur Pallam stream which lies 
between Latitude 11.036083 North & 
Longitude 76.94935 East, 
Pipe will laid underground in stream 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
92 
 
Infrastructure Location and Environment Features Site Photograph 
Porumboke. 
Treated Effulent disposed from STP to this 
stream (the other end of sluice) by means 
of Gravity main of 700 mm DI Pipe for 0.50 
Km. The stream joins River Noyyal at a 
distance of 11.48.kms from the point of 
disposal. 
• Streamis owned by Revenue 
Department and is maintained by 
PWD. 
• Carrying capacity of the stream: 
13485 cusec 
• Current flow in this stream: 10119 
cusec (during heavy rainfall) 
• Proposed flow from STP:  7.76 
cusec (13191 lpm) 
• Before commissioning the STP, 
necessary permission will be 
obtained from the PWD to let the 
treated effluent into the above 
stream 
 
 
V. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES 
91. The proposed subproject shall provide underground sewerage system for added areas of 
Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation (CCMC), viz., Vadavalli & Veerakeralam (Zone V), 
Kavundampalayam & Thudiyalur (Zone VII). The subproject components included sewage 
collection system, lifting stations, pumping stations and pumping mains for each zone. New 
Sewage Treatment Plants are proposed sepa rately for two zones, after analysing the existing 
sewerage system and STPs, based on zoning of the expanded Coimbatore Corporation as a 
whole in the subproject to treat sewage collected from the subproject areas. 
92. The subproject location was carefully planned so that no significant ecological resources, 
no significant heritage sites and no sensitive receptors would be affected during implementation 
of the project. During Construction environmental impacts are expected to be very minimal and 
will have temporary impacts and site specific. These impacts can be minimized during proposed 
construction activities by proper construction methods, schedules and via implementing mitigation 
measures.This section analyses the project alternatives in terms of selection of  Pumping station 
and Lifting Station sites, mode of disposal of treated sewage. 
Table 32:Analysis of Alternatives 
Project Locations 
Sewage Pumping Station (SPS):  The locations of 2 SPS sites are 
selected to utmost consideration to energy efficiency. Gravity flow 
systems have been adopted. In addition sites were selected on the 
basis of Government land available nearest to the required locations. 
The selected sites  are Coimbatore corporation (CCMC) owned 
land.Hence alternative site is not considered in project design phase. 
SPS for Zone V is proposed within the premises of CCMC maintained 
Cremetorium at Vadavalli. Another one for Zone VII is proposed in the 
land meant for public purpose at Thudiyalur. 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
93 
 
Lifting Stations (LS):  The locations of 10 LS sites were selected on 
the basis of Government land available nearest to the required 
locations. The selected sites are Coimbatore Corporation owned lands. 
Hence alternative site is not considered in project design phase. 
Collection system: Sewers will be laid underground in the roads and 
internal streets or within the road right of way in the proposed zones (4 
added areas in Zone V & VII) of Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation 
Area 
Treated Sewage 
disposal 
Presently, treated sewage water from the new STP at 
Chokkampudur(for Zone V) isproposed to bedischarged into the 
existing surplus stream of Kumaraswamy lake passing through 
Selvachinthamani & Periyakulam lakes, eventually connecting to River 
Noyyal. 
Treated effluent from another new STP at Kavundampalayam (for 
Zone VII) is proposed to be let into the nearby Sanganur pallam leading 
to River Noyyal. 
On considering the alternative disposal, CCMC has planned the reuse 
of trea ted sewage for non -potable uses is proposed, as already 
provided for in the sewerage scheme to omitted areas of CCMC. 
 
a) Without Project Scenario : 
93. At present there is no Under Ground Sewerage System in the newly added areas of 
Coimbatore Corporation. There is no separate system for carrying the sewage and storm water 
separately in the area.  The road side drains are carrying both the sullage and the rain water.  
Only about 2/3rd of the houses have septic tanks.  The houses in the slum area s do not have 
latrines and they depend on community toilets and open spaces. The drain overflows during rain 
leaving the area flooded and consequent stagnation of water in and around junction giving rise to 
degraded living environment with foul smell and filth. The untreated, waste water of the town badly 
pollutes the land, air and ground water in the village areas outside the town limits. 
b) With Project Scenario : 
94. As Underground Sewerage Scheme is one of the primary key indicative factors for the 
economic development, it was decided to take up the Underground Sewerage System to the 4 
added areas. The present proposal is to provide Under Ground Sewerage System in Wards 16 
to 19 covering Vadavalli and Veerakeralam areas and also in Wards 1(Pt), 2 to 9 & 43(Pt) covering 
Kavundampalayam and Thudiyalur areas of Coimbatore Corporation. As a result of 
implementation of  the UGSS, the added areas as well as the surroundings will get upgraded 
living environment with healthy and hygienic atmosphere. Consequently, natura l water bodies 
would also be protected from contamination, thereby utilising for irrigation and fishing etc. 
remaining with aesthetic and healthy recreational environment and Biodiversity. 
---PAGE BREAK---
94 
 
VI. ANTICIPATED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES : 
95. Potential environmental impacts of the proposed infrastructure components are presented 
in this section. Mitigation measures to minimize/mitigate negative impacts, if any, are 
recommended along with the agency responsible for implementation. Monit oring actions to be 
conducted during the implementation phase is also recommended to reduce the impact. 
 
96. Screening of potential environmental impacts are categorized into four categories 
considering subproject phases: location impacts and design impacts (p re-construction phase), 
construction phase impacts and operations and maintenance phase impacts. 
 
(i) Location impacts include impacts associated with site selection and include loss 
of on -site biophysical array and encroachment either directly or indirectly o n 
adjacent environments. It also includes impacts on people who will lose their 
livelihood or any other structures by the development of that site. 
(ii) Design impacts  include impacts arising from Investment Program design, 
including technology used, scale of operation/throughput, waste production, 
discharge specifications, pollution sources and ancillary services. 
(iii) Construction impacts  include impacts caused by site cle aring, earthworks, 
machinery, vehicles and workers. Construction site impacts include erosion, dust, 
noise, traffic congestion and waste production. 
(iv) O&M impacts  include impacts arising from the operation and maintenance 
activities of the infrastructure fac ility. These include routine management of 
operational waste streams, and occupational health and safety issues. 
 
97. Screening of environmental impacts has been based on the impact magnitude 
(negligible/moderate/severe – in the order of increasing degree) and impact duration 
(temporary/permanent).  
 
98. This section of the IEE reviews possible project-related impacts, in order to identify issues 
requiring further attention and screen out issues of no relevance. ADB SPS (2009) require that 
impacts and risks will be analyzed during pre -construction, construction, and operational stages 
in the context of the project’s area of influence. 
 
99. The ADB Rapid Environmental Assessment Checklist in 
https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/project-document/222541/49377-001-iee-04b.pdfhas 
been used to screen the project for environmental impacts and to determine the scope of the IEE. 
 
100. In the case of this project (i) most of the individual elements involve simpleconstruction 
and operation  techniques, so impacts will be mainly localized and not greatly significant; (ii) 
negative impacts associated with sewage facilities such as odor are already considered in the 
design and siting, (iii) most of the predicted impacts are associated with the construction process, 
and are produced because that process is invasive, involving excavation and earth movements; 
and (iv) being mostly located in an urban area, will not cause direct impact on biodiversity values. 
In case encountered, the blasting proposed is “controlled blasting” following necessary 
precautionary measures including usage of appropriate quantities of explosives, hence that the 
nearby st ructures and properties are unlikely to be affected and impacts related to controlled 
blasting such as dust generation, increased noise le vels and vibrations would be mitigated. The 
project will be in properties held by the CCMC and access to the project location is through public 
---PAGE BREAK---
95 
 
rights-of-way and existing roads hence, land acquisition and encroachment on private property 
will not occur. 
D. Pre-Construction Impacts – Design and Location : 
101. Design of the Proposed Components  : Technical design of the (i) sewage treatment 
plants; (ii) sewage pumping and lifting stations; and (iii) sewer network including manholes and 
house connections, follows the relevant national planning and design guidelines, focusing on 
providing a robust system which is easy to operate, sustainable, efficient and economically viable.   
 
102. Design of Sewage Treatment Plant  :15.43 MLD capacity STP is proposed to be 
constructed at the identified site “Chokkampudur near crematorium”to treat the sewage generated 
from the subproject areas of Vadavalli and Veeerakeralam.Another 19.49 MLD capacity STP is 
proposed to be provided at Koundamapalayam Compost yard to treat the sewage collected from 
the another subproject area of Koundampalayam and Thudiylaur areas. Both the treatment plants 
and disposal system are proposed under DBOT contract, the STP will be designed by the DBOT 
contractor and adopt suitable technology conversant, familiar and effective . However, the STP 
process will be designed to meet the stipulated disposal standardsfor both the STPs. 
Table 33: Standards for Sewage Treatement Plants(STPs) 
Parameters Standards (Applicable to all mode 
of disposal) 
pH 5.5 – 9.0 
Bio-chemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) 10 
Total Suspended Solids (TSS) 20 
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) 50 
Nitrogen – Total 10 
Phosphorus – Total (For Discharge into Ponds, Lakes) 1.0 
Fecal Coliform (FC) (Most Probable Number per 100 
mililiter, MPN/100) 
Desirable – 100 
Permissible – 230 
Note: 
(i). Mega-Metropolitan Cities have population more than 1 crore, Metropolitan Cities -Population 
more than 10 Lakhs and Class-1 Population more than 1 Lakh. 
(ii). All value in mg/l except for pH and Fecal Coliform. 
(iii). These standards will be appli cable for discharge into water bodies as well as for land 
disposal/applications. 
(iv). These Standards shall apply to all new STPs for which construction is yet to be initiated. 
(v). The existing/under construction STPs shall achieve these standards within 07 years from the 
date of notification. 
(vi). In case where the marine outfall provides a minimum initial dilution of 150 times at the point 
of discharge and a minimum dilution of 1500 times at a point 100m away from discharge point, 
then norms for deep sea marine discharge shall be applied. 
(vii). Reuse/Recycling of treated effluent shall be encouraged. 
(viii).State Pollution Control Boards/Pollution Control Committees may make these norms more 
stringent taking into account the local conditions 
(Source :TNPCB, 2020) 
 
103. One of the critical aspects in STP operation is, change in raw sewage characteristics at 
inlet of STP may affect the process and output quality. The system is designed for municipal 
wastewater, which does not include industrial effluent. Characteristics of industrial effluent widely 
vary depending on the type of industry, and therefore disposal of effluent into sewers may greatly 
---PAGE BREAK---
96 
 
vary the inlet quality at STP, and will upset process and affect the efficiency. Although legally the 
disposal of effluent meeting certain standards is allowed into municipal sewers the monitoring of 
the same is not -practical. Although there are no significant presence of industries with 
problematicwater discharges in the subproject areas, following measures are suggest ed to 
safeguard sewerage system efficiency: 
(i) No industrial wastewater shall be allowed to dispose into municipal sewers 
(ii) No domestic wastewater from industrial units shall be allowed into municipal 
sewers 
(iii) Ensure that there is no illegal discharge through manholes or inspection chambers 
(iv) Conduct public awareness programs. 
(v) Conduct regular wastewater quality monitoring (at inlet and at outlet of STP) to 
ensure that the treated effluent quality complies with the standards  
 
104. The site for STP selected for the subproject areas of Vadavalli and Veeerakeralam areasis 
within large land parcel to an extent of 16.50 acres, presently burial ground and crematorium are 
functioning, remaining vacant land. An area of 4 acres is allocated for the proposed STP. This 
land is located in the south  zone of Coimbatore corporation, eastern side bo unded by burial 
ground; northern side by road and lake and other sides are vacant land. Further the site for STP 
selected for the subproject areas of Koundampalayam and Thudiylaur areas is within large land 
parcel to an extent of 10.0 acres, with Compost yard, Solar Power plant and Muslim Burial Ground 
and remaining vacant land. An area of 5 acres is allocated for the proposed STP. This land is 
located in the West zone of Coimbatore corporation, Compost Yard  found on Southern side and 
Muslim Burial Ground found on the Eastern side. Northern side and Western side  are vacantThe 
SBR being an aerobic process and conducted in a compacted and a closed system with 
automated operation, odor nuisance will be very minimal. Limited bad odors may be generated 
from wet well, primary treatment units and sludge treatment. Besides operating the plant, to 
minimise the odor potential, the following measuresare also included in the site planning and 
design: 
(i) Site layout design of STP within allocated 5 acre land, maintaining ad equate 
bufferto the closest housing area. 
(ii) Providing a green buffer zone of 15 -20 m wide all aro und the STP with trees in 
rows and land scaping. This will act as a visual screen around the facility and will 
improve the aesthetic appearance.  
(iii) Dewatering units shall be located in enclosed building vented to odour control unit, 
and health and safety precaution shall be put in place H2S build up. 
(iv) Locate sludge drying beds maintaining maximum dis tance from the residential 
area.Sludge quantity will be about 250 to 300 kg/mld/day. 
 
105. Sewage sludge  generally consists of organic matter, pathogens, metals and micro 
pollutants. The concentration of parameters such as metals can be influenced by input to the 
sewers system from industry. Since no industrial wastewater is allowed into sewers, it is unlikely 
that sludge contains heavy metals. The sludge from reactors will be collected in sludge sump and 
conveyed to centrifuge for dewatering. Dewatering units will be in enclosed building vented to 
odour control unit, and health and safety precaution shall be put in place H2S build up. The sludge 
in the form of a wet cake will be further air -dried in the sludge drying beds. The treatment and 
drying processes kill enteric bacteria and pathogens, and because of its h igh content of nitrates, 
phosphates and other plant nutrients the sludge is an excellent organic fertilizer for application to 
the land. Adequate drying is however necessary to ensure maximum kill of enteric bacteria. To 
achieve adequate drying minimum dry ing period (15 days) shall be ensured. The drying period, 
which will be varying depending on the season will be determined during operation and be 
---PAGE BREAK---
97 
 
followed..Depending upon the quantity and quality of the sludge produced, a sludge management 
plan upon various avenues may be examined and will be developed by the STP facility designer 
by means of ‘DBOT’. Demand for sludge as manure/soil conditioner will be considered during the 
plan preparation duly taking into consideration cumulative manure/soil conditioner generated by 
all STPs in Coimbatore. Sludge shall be periodically tested for presence of heavy metals. The 
DBOT contractor will be insisted to employ proper sludge handling methods. Personal Protection 
Equipment should be provided to the workers. 
 
106. Properly dried sludge can be used as soil conditioner. Periodic testing of dried sludge will 
be conducted to ensure that it does not contain heavy metals that make it unsuitable for food 
crops. Tests will be conducted to confirm the concentrations below the follow ing standards. As 
there are no specific standards notified for sludge reuse, the compost quality standards notified 
under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016have been adopted here. Rules stipulate that “In 
order to ensure safe application of compost, the following specifications for compost quality shall 
be met”: 
Table 34: Standards for Sludge Reuse as Manure 
Standards for Composting . As there are no specific standards notified for sludge reuse, the 
compost quality standards notified under the Solid Waste Management  Rules, 2016 (Schedule 
II A, Standards for Composting) have been adopted here. According to the standards “In order to 
ensure safe application of compost, the following specifications for compost quality shall be met, 
namely:- 
Parameters Units Organic Compost 
(FCO 2009) 
Phosphate 
RichOrganic 
Manure(FCO 2013) 
Arsenic mg/kg 10 10 
Cadmium mg/kg 5 5 
Chromium  50 50 
Copper  300 300 
Lead  100 100 
Mercury  0.15 0.15 
Nickel  50 50 
Zinc  1000 1000 
C/N ratio  <20 <20:1 
PH  6.5 – 7.5 (1:5 solution) maximum 
6.7 
Moisture, percent by weight, 
maximum  15.0 – 25.0 25.0 
Bulk density (g/cm3)  <1 Less than 1.6 
Total Organic Carbon, per cent 
by weight, minimum  12 7.9 
Total Nitrogen (as N), per cent 
by weight, minimum 
percent 
by 
weight 
0.8 0.4 
Total Phosphate (as P205) 
percent byweight, minimum 
percent 
by 
weight 
0.4 10.4 
Total Potassium (as K20), 
percent by 
weight, minimum 
percent 
by 
weight 
0.4 - 
---PAGE BREAK---
98 
 
Standards for Composting . As there are no specific standards notified for sludge reuse, the 
compost quality standards notified under the Solid Waste Management  Rules, 2016 (Schedule 
II A, Standards for Composting) have been adopted here. According to the standards “In order to 
ensure safe application of compost, the following specifications for compost quality shall be met, 
namely:- 
Parameters Units Organic Compost 
(FCO 2009) 
Phosphate 
RichOrganic 
Manure(FCO 2013) 
Colour    
Odour  Absence of foul Odor  
Particle size  
minimum 90% material 
should pass through 4.0 
mm is sieve 
minimum 90% material 
should pass through 4.0 
mm is sieve 
Conductivity, not moreThan dsm-1 4 8.2 
* compost (final product) exceeding the above stated concentration limits shall not be used for 
food crops. however, it may be utilized for purposes other than growing food crops. 
 
107. Sewer system – collection  and  conveyance. The sewerage system is designed as a 
separate system of sewage collection (i.e. caters only to wastewater). Existing surface road side 
drains in the project area cater to collection and conveyance of runoff during rains. The 
underground gravity sewers will carry sewage from households to the nearest lifting or pumping 
station, from where the sewage is pumped to the STP.To maximize the benefits as intended, City 
Corporationwill ensure that all existing septic tanks are phased out by bypassing the inlet and 
connecting the toilet discharge from each house directly to sewerage system.  
 
108. Accumulation of silt in sewers in areas of low over time, overflows, blockages, power 
outages, harmful working conditions for the workers cleaning sewers etc. are some of the issues 
that are taken into consideration during the sewer system design. Measures such as the following 
are included in sewer system design to ensure that the system provides the benefits as intended: 
(i) Limit the sewer depth where possible   
(ii) Sewers shall be laid away from water supply lines and drains (at least 1 m), if not 
possible, sewer lines shall be laid below the water lines; 
(iii) In all cases, the sewer line should be laid deeper than the water pipeline (the 
difference between top of the sewer and bottom of water pipeline should be at least 
300 mm)  
(iv) In unavoidable cases, where sewers are to be laid close to storm water drains, 
appropriate pipe material(that has no or least infiltration risk) shall be selected 
(stoneware pipes shall be avoided)  
(v) For shallower s ewers and especially in narrow roads, use small inspection 
chambers in lieu of manholes; 
(vi) Controlled blasting would be undertaken in STP sites including MPS where hard 
rock is encountered based on the site conditions. For the safety of humans and 
the struct ures within the area influenced by the blasting, the vibrations related 
impacts would be addressed by designing, the blast charge by complying with the 
provisions elaborated in the applicable Indian regulations and standards. All 
records shall be maintaine d by the Contractors and PIU. Training related to 
controlled blasting activity will be included in the overall safeguards training 
programme meant for PIUs and Contractors. 
(vii) Design manhole covers to withstand anticipated loads  and  ensure that the covers 
can be readily replaced if broken to minimize silt/garbage entry  
---PAGE BREAK---
99 
 
(viii) Ensure sufficient hydraulic capacity to accommodate peak flows  and  adequate 
slope in gravity mains to prevent buildup of solids and hydrogen sulfide generation. 
 
109. Sewage Pumping stations and lift stations. It is proposed to construct 10 (7+3)sewage 
lift stations, and 2 (1+1)  sewage pumping stations, which will receive sewage from the catchment 
area via the sewer network and pump to higher level manholes or pumping stations or to STP as 
per the design. Lift stations are necessitated where in the design the depth of sewer exceeds the 
downstream interlinking manhole invert levels. Attempts to eliminate lift stations by examining the 
feasibility of providing rider mains  are assessed to be uneconomical. Therefore, in such 
situations, the feasible and practical solution was to opt for a low capacity lift station with 
submersible pumps to lift and convey the collected sewage  from peripheral areas to the 
downstream system through a bell-mouth chamber. 
 
110. Lift stations will cater to small area, and will be located at lowest point where the sewage 
from catchment area will be collected, and then pumped to a higher level manhole for further 
gravity flow or to a pumping station, from where it is  ultimately pumped to the STP. Lift station 
consists of a sewage sump or suction well of dia 1.5 m to 2 m and 1.9 m to 5.0 m deep, below 
the ground, to receive sewage, submersible pumps in the sump to pump out, and an electrical 
panel board for operation of pumps above the ground. A generator set will also be provided at 
each lift station of required size. Controlled blasting related activities may have to be undertaken 
at some locations for the presence of hard rock anticipated.  
111. Sewage pump stations will also perform same function as sewage lift stations but cater 
to much larger area or sewage flow, and will also ha ve several components, and occupy 
comparatively larger area. Components of sewage pumping station include: 
(i) Screen well; 
(ii) Grit well; Suction well; 
(iii) DG set platform; 
(iv) Pump room.  
112. At these pumping or lifting stations, the operation involves accumulation of incom ing 
sewage in the suction well, and then pumping out as the sewage level reaches the designed 
pumping depth. The water level in the well rises up before the pumping cycle starts, and as the 
pumping is performed the water level goes down, registering its lo west depth at the end of 
pumping of cycle. This cycle of rising and lowering will continue throughout the day and night, 
however, the duration between successive pumping cycles will significantly vary depending on 
the sewage generation. During morning and evening peak hours, sewage will accumulate quickly, 
and pumping frequency will be high. The sewage retention time in the suction well therefore varies 
throughout the day, with very high retention periods during the nights and mid-days.  
113. Odor from pump and lift stations.In the suction wells, the sewage emits gases, which 
accumulated in the air above water surface. The gas may include odorous compounds like 
hydrogen sulphides (H 2S), amines, fatty acids, aldehydes, ketones and other volatile organic 
compounds (VOCs). As the water level rises before the pumping cycle, it physically displaces the 
air, along with the odorous gas compounds. H 2S is the most dominant odor causing compound, 
and therefore can cause nuisance to nearby households.When sewage becomes stag nant, H2S 
is generated in the anaerobic conditions.  The quantum of H 2S generation depend on quantity of 
accumulated sewage and sewage retention time that create anaerobic conditions. Both increase 
in quantity of sewage accumulation and retention time will increase the H2S generation. Design 
considerations are included to minimize the both as much as possible. Pumping stations cater to 
large area and will have high capacity of suction wells and pump sets, while lift stations are small 
with lower capacity of suction wells and pumps sets. The retention time is kept to its lowest 
---PAGE BREAK---
100 
 
possible so that there is no stagnation of sewage for long time which coul d create anaerobic 
conditions. 
 
114. Given that lifting stations and pumping stations are to be located at technical ly feasible 
locations (e.g., lowest point to where sewage can be conveyed from households by gravity) within 
or close to the residential areas which are being served by respective pumping/lifting station. 
Given the very limited land availability in urban areas like the project area, that too of government 
owned lands, locating the pumping stations ideally about 50 -100 m away from the houses is not 
practical.  in Coimbatore, sites for pumping stations were identified based on the technical 
suitability and availability of government owned land parcels to avoid land acquisition.Given the 
comparatively higher potential of odor generation, priority has been given to accommodate 
pumping stations at more suitable locations away from houses and mostly in sparsely po pulated 
areas. Sites which are located close have been selected only in cases where there are no ot her 
alternative lands available. 
 
115. Following design related measures are included in the sewage pumping and lifting station 
design. As presented in the baseline profile, few lifting stations are located along the roads within 
the road right of way. In such cases there is no buffer space between the houses and the lifting 
station, and also no layout planning related measures as given below including creating buf fer 
area around the facility may not be feasible.  Odor potential of lifting stations is very minimal given 
small scale operation, however, given close location to houses, design related measures as given 
below are included. 
 
1. Layout planning related measures 
(i) Siting of wells within the identified site at an internal location as far as possible 
from adjoining residential buildings; 
(ii) Develop green buffer zone around the facilities with a combination of tall and 
densely growing trees in multi rows as per the land availability to control odor and 
also act as visual shield, and improve aesthetical appearance; Almost all locations 
can be accommodated with green buffer, except one at pothigai residency,  with 
minimal greenery, that too the site is in outskirts. 
(iii) Provision of high compound wall. 
 
2. Design related measures to prevent and control odor from pumping/lifting 
station operations 
(i) Proposed wells to be closed using RCC slabs. Design of RCC slab to consider 
both superimposed loads (human  and  equipment lo ads) and severe corrosion 
risk from sewer gas from within wells. 
(ii) RCC Slab to be designed and fixed in a modular manner such that access to 
pumps / appurtenances and other equipment can be provided for 
maintenance/replacement/renewal purposes; 
(iii) Since human i ntervention is involved and safety shall be primary and critical 
consideration, additional protection by way of a metalled grating / grill work shall 
be provided over the sections (or full cross section if required) where workers will 
stand / work for inspection and repair/O&M purposes; 
(iv) Provision of passive gas ventilation arrangement by providing a take-off vent from 
top of well by positioning vent in such a way that cover slab 
fitment/movement/drawl if required for maintenance purposes is not compromised.  
(v) Height of vent to be provided appropriately and a minimum 2 m above the lintel 
level (top level) of window(s)/passageways/doors in the nearby adjoining buildings. 
---PAGE BREAK---
101 
 
(vi) Provision of odor control / mitigation system as per site conditions / 
requirements.Suitable granular activated carbon filter with bird-screen fitted at the 
vent outlet to control odor. Size of GAC (including material size) should be selected 
based on the vent diameter and expelled air flow rate expected; 
(vii) Submersible sewage pumps of suitable rat ing, minimum submergence 
requirements, open impeller with cutting -tearing arrangement and high strength -
corrosion resistant heavy duty construction shall be proposed; 
(viii) In locations / cases where sewage flow in the present to intermediate design stage 
is env isaged to be low, position of the submersible pumps and design of the 
collection well floor by providing necessary side benching / sloped flooring to allow 
for higher submergence during low flow shall be made to ensure regular pump 
operation and avoid sewage stagnation beyond the permissible limit; 
(ix) Diesel Generators shall be provided for all pump stations and in cases of lift 
stations with space for control room. In cases of lift manholes (road -side or road-
center type structures with only provision of kerb -side kiosk), an electrical cut-out 
provision shall be made for connecting an Emergency Mobile / Skid Mounted 
Diesel Generator for pumping out during long period of electricity supply 
interruption; 
(x) Develop standard operating procedures/operational manual f or operation and 
maintenance of lifting and pump stations; this shall include measures for emerge 
situations; 
(xi) Provide training to the staff in SOPs and emergency procedures; 
(xii) Periodic monitoring of H2S levels at sewage pumping and lifting stations using 
handheld H2S meters.4 
 
116. Provision of odor treatment system. Besides the above measures, following odor 
control and mitigation measures are considered at all sewage pumping and lifting stations, for 
facilities located very close to the houses/properties.  
(i) Provide closed wells fitted with necessary ventilation wherever required; 
(ii) Except Pothigai Residency (where the area is less and also located outskirts from 
the city), all other locations proposed for LS and PS shall be provided with 
greenbelt to control the odor issues 
(iii) a suitable arrangement such to capture the gaseous emissions from the wells and 
treat via scrubber/activated carbon filter before letting out into the ambient air; such 
system should be designed appropriately to meet the likely emissions/ flow rate of 
respective pumping / lifting stations. This system shall be provided for all 
pumping/lifting stations located close (<50 m) to houses 
 
 
4 There are no any standards notified by Government of India or Government of Tamil Nadu. However, Central Pollution 
Control Board (CPCB) has stipulated Guidelines on Odor Pollution and its Control. These guidelines deal only  with 
the basics of odor pollution, its sources and measurement, technologies for its control etc. but do not specify any 
threshold limits for odor-causing pollutants. Therefore, as part of mitigation, provision for odor control measures has 
been made in the sewage pumping stations for all UGSS subprojects. However, in case of STPs, the odor -causing 
processing units will be located far off to the extent possible within the premises so as to mitigate the odor nuisance. 
Further, the technology for treating se wage plays a vital role since release of gases like H2S cannot be avoided in 
the process involving anaerobic decomposition whereas release of H2S will almost be nil in case of aerobic treatment. 
PIU and design engineers have not specified any odor standards adopted elsewhere in the preliminary designas not 
to limit the technology that can be considered by the bidders in the treatment of domestic sewage. Sufficient mitigation 
measures have been taken for all sewage pumping stations and will be taken for all STPs when finalizing/revising the 
IEEs based on the detailed engineering design. 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
102 
 
 
117. Mechanical odor control system: The odor control unit is becoming primary design 
consideration of the sewage pumping and treatment facilities. Areas in which most odor problems 
are collection, primary treatment facilities and solid handling facilities. Generally, odours are 
produced by b iological reaction at anaerobic/septic conditions. This condition  occurs when 
oxygen transfer to the wastewater is limited, in the anaerobic state, the microbes present in the 
wastewater have no dissolved oxygen for respiration, in the absence of disso lved oxygen. The 
odor causing agents in the PS/ STP are Hydrogen Sulfide, Ethyl mercaptan, Methyl mercaptan, 
Dimethyl sufide, Sulfur dioxide, Benzyl mercaptan. The conventional and engineered odour 
control unit that are commercially available are bio filter, s crubber, carbon filter, biotricking 
filter/bio scrubber. The details of odour control system is provided in the Appendix 11. The suitable 
type of mechanical odor control system will be installed depending on the site conditions. 
 
118. Noise from pumping operations. Operation of pumps and motors and diesel generators 
is a major source of noise. As the pumping and lifting stations are located in the residential areas, 
with few located very close to the houses, noise generated from lifting/pump stations can have 
continuous negative impacts on the surrounding population. Although STP is located outside the 
city, noise control measures are necessary. High inside noise levels can affect the health of 
operators and staff at the facilities, and therefore, noise levels needs to be maintained within and 
outside the plant as per applicable regulatory standards. 
(i) Procure good quality latest technology high pressure pumps that guarantee 
controlled noise at a level of around 80dB(A) at a distance of 1 m5 
(ii) Use appropriate building materials and construction techniques for pump houses 
which can absorb sound rather than reflect noise  
(iii) Use acoustic enclosures – manufacturer specified, for all pumps, motors  
(iv) Procure only CPCB approved generators to meet air emis sion and  noise level  
requirements 
(v) Provide sound mufflers for ventilators in the plant rooms; and sound proof doors 
(vi) Provide ear plugs designated for noise reductionto workers 
 
119. Energy Efficiency. Project area is mostly plain and gently sloping ground, it i s therefore 
not technically feasible or economical to design a completely gravity system to collect sewage 
from individual houses and transfer the same the STP on the outskirts of the city. It necessitated 
provision of lifting and pumping stations, which a re optimized to the extent possible to minimize 
the overall pumping. In the current design, sewage will be collected from the houses via sewer 
network and conveyed by gravity to the lifting or pumping station. In several placeslifting stations 
are designed just to lift the sewage to higher level and deliver it to a nearby sewer manhole on 
the higher elevation, from there it can flow by again by gravity, rather than pumping directly to a 
pumping station. This optimized the energy consumption.   
 
120. To optimize the power consumption, the hydraulic design shall follow optimal approach, 
and the following also considered in design and selection of pumping systems. According to 
Manual for the Development of Municipal Energy Efficiency Projects in India (jointly developed by 
Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) and International Finance Corporation in 2008), energy 
 
 
5Indian Standards require to maintain the noise level of 70 dBA or less during night time. However, in case of 
STPs/WTPs/Water Supply Head works, where heavy duty pump sets are to be installed and the noise levels 
may even exceed 80 decibels at 1 m distance , noise level will be measured at the time of commissioning the 
units and necessary mitigation measures such as noise barriers will be installed if required. 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
103 
 
savings, at minimum, of 25% to 40% is possible with appropriate measures. The following 
measures shall be considered and incorporated into the subproject designs: 
(i) Using low-noise and energy efficient pumping systems 
(ii) Efficient Pumping system operation 
(iii) Installation of Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs) 
 
121. Tree cutting at selected project sites. As presented in the baseline profile of subproject 
sites, there are no notable tree cover in the project sites  including the STP sites. Sewers are 
proposed within the roads, and therefore no tree cutting envisaged. Following measures need to 
be implemented to minimize and/or compensate for the loss of tree cover.   
(i) Minimize removal of trees by adopting to site condition and with appropriate layout 
design of STP and pumping stations 
(ii) Obtain prior permission for tree cutting  
(iii) Plant and maintain 10 trees for each tree that is removed . Planting trees will be 
carried out in the bank of ponds now under decoration & adorning –(bringing 
aesthetic view with walking / cycling provisions etc. for the public) under smart city 
scheme by the CCMC. Trees will be planted in the Schools, Parks and other public 
places belonging to the CCMC, and in the Lit/Pump stations & STP sites of this 
subproject and also in the pumping stations & water treatment plants under water 
supply schemes maintained by TWAD Board, in order to compensate the 
occurrence of tree cutting, while execution of the scheme. 
 
122. Utilities. Telephone lines, electric poles and wires, water lines, drains, if exists within the 
proposed project locations may require to be shifted. All the selected project sites are vacant and 
unused government lands, there are no notable existing utilities. Sewer lines are proposed within 
the road way, where there are no utilities. In the outer areas where there is adequate earthen 
shoulder along the road carriage way, sewer lines can be accommodated in the shoulder. In such 
cases, the work may require shifting of utilities on the shoulder. To mitigate the adverse impacts 
due to relocation of the utilities, the contractor, in collaboration with the Coimbatore City Municipal 
Corporation will  
(i) identify the locations and operators of these utilities to prevent unnecessary 
disruption of services during construction phase; and  
(ii) instruct construction contractors to prepare a conting ency plan to include actions 
to be done in case of unintentional interruption of services 
 
123. Site selection of construction work camps, stockpile areas, storage areas, and 
disposal areas. Priority is to locate these near the project location. but at least 100m away from 
residential areas, groundwater wells and surface water bodies. However, if it is deemed 
necessary to locate elsewhere, sites to be considered will not promote instability a nd result in 
destruction of property, vegetation, irrigation, and drinking water supply systems. Residential 
areas will not be considered for setting up construction camps to protect the human environment 
(i.e., to curb accident risks, health risks due to air and water pollution and dust, and noise, and to 
prevent social conflicts, shortages of amenities, and crime). Extreme care will be taken to avoid 
disposals near forest areas, water bodies, or in sensitive areas. 
 
124. Site selection of sources of materials . Significant quantities of coarse aggregate and 
fine aggregate will be required for construction works. Contractor should procure these materials 
only from the quarries permitted/licensed by Departmentof Geology and Mining.  Contractor 
shouldprocure materi al from existing quarries.No new quarry areas should be created/ 
established for the subproject. 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
104 
 
125. Social and Cultural Resources – Chance Finds. Any work involving ground disturbance 
can uncover and damage archaeological and historical remains. For this pro ject, excavation will 
occur in project sites for foundations, laying pipelines, and for construction of underground 
structures at pumping/lifting stations and at STP.  There are no archeologically or historically 
recognized sites or places close to project sites or within the project area. Therefore  
it is not likely that the project sites contains any archaeological or historical remains, and risk of 
uncovering them is very low. Nevertheless, CCMC will follow chance find protocol to ensure that 
any chance finds are recognised and measures are taken to ensure they are protected and 
conserved: 
(i) Construction contractors to follow these measures in conducting any excavation 
work 
(ii) Create awareness among the workers, supervisors and engineers about the 
chance finds during excavation work 
(iii) Stop work immediately to allow further investigation if any finds are suspected; 
(iv) Inform State Archaeological Department if a find is suspected, and taking any 
action they require to ensure its removal or protection in situ. 
 
E. Construction Impacts 
126. Main civil works in the subproject include construction of sewage treatment plant, sewage 
pumping and lifting stations at the identified sites.  These works will be confined to  sites, and 
construction will include general activities like site clearance, excavation for foundations, and 
creation of concrete structures will be one of the major construction activities for this project, as 
many of the subproject components will be fi xed to concrete plinths and most will be housed in 
buildings with at least some concrete structural elements. Most such structures will be constructed 
from reinforced concrete, where steel reinforcing rods and bars are placed and attached by hand 
to create  an interior skeleton for the foundations, walls, columns, plinths, etc, and heavy -duty 
metal and timber/plywood formwork is bolted around the outside to build a mould into which pre-
mixed concrete is poured. Once the concrete has set, the formwork is removed, and the concrete 
surface is finished by masons by hand if necessary.Some buildings, such as the pump station, 
facilities, etc., may be constructed from brick work, in which case this work will be done using 
standard house -building techniques.  The exca vation in hard rock if any encountered will be 
carried out by controlled blasting technique with all mitigation and safety measures. 
 
127. Technical components of the STP comprise a variety of pre -fabricated elements, which 
are installed on site as ready -made i ndividual units. These will be directly brought from the 
manufacturers place to the sites lifted into position by crane, affixed to plinths or other installation 
points, and connected up to pipework and the electricity supply.  
 
128. Since these works are confi ned to the boundary of identified sites, there is no direct or 
significant interference of construction work with the surrounding land use. However, construction 
dust, noise, use of local roads for transportation of construction material, waste, labour cam ps 
etc., will have negative impacts, which needs to be avoided or mitigated properly.    
 
129. Subproject also include linear works (laying of 542 kms sewers along the roads). This 
covers almost entire project area of Zone 5 ( Vadavalli & Veerakeralam) and Zone 7 
(Koundampalayam &Thudiyalur), and sewers will be laid along almost all the roads. Small sewers 
(tertiary sewers) that collect sewage from house holds will be laid in all streets and roads, the 
larger sewers that collect sewage from tertiary sewers and convey to pumping stations and STP 
will be laid mostly on wider main roads. Sewers will be laid by open cut method. 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
105 
 
130. Open cut trenching method of sewer laying involves trench excavation in the road, placing 
sewers in the trench, jointing and testing, and refilling with the excavated soil.  Proposed pipes 
for tertiary sewers are double wall corrugated (DWC) pipes and conveying mains (pumping mains) 
are of cast iron. The diameter of sewer ranges from 150 mm to 700 mm, of which nearly 85% of 
the sewers are of size between 150 mm and 250 mm. According to the design the sewers will be 
laid at a depth of 1 to 10 m. The width of the trench excavation along the roads will vary from 0.8 
m to 1.4 m, and the depth varies from a minimum of 1 m to 10 m. Nearly 90% length of sewers 
will be laid in trench of depth 3 m or less, and there are very few sewers that will be laid in a trench 
of more than 6 m deep (0.4% sewers only). The design is optimized to minimize the sewer depth 
to the extent possible with an optimal combination of sewer depth and pumping requirements. 
Details of sewer construction are provided in the following Table.  
Table 35: Sewer Construction (Zone V) 
Dia of 
Sewer 
Sewer 
Material 
Total Length of 
Sewers to be laid 
(m) 
Percentage of 
Length 
(diameter-wise) 
Width of 
Trench(m) 
Depth of Trench & 
Percentage of Sewer 
Length (%) 
200 DWC 1,91,787 83.32% 0.8 
0 – 2 m 85.13% 
2 – 2.5 m 9.33% 
2.5 – 3 m 5.54% 
250 DWC 2,563 1.11% 0.8 
0 – 2 m 71.52% 
2 – 2.5 m 17.40% 
2.5 – 3 m 11.08% 
300 DWC 1,502 0.65% 0.9 
0 – 2 m 64.51% 
2 – 2.5 m 11.52% 
2.5 – 3 m 23.97% 
200 CI 20,237 8.79% 0.8 
2 – 2.5 m 0.14% 
3 – 3.5 m 34.89% 
3.5 – 4 m 21.77% 
4 – 6 m 41.79% 
6 – 8 m 1.41% 
250 CI 904 0.39% 0.8 
3 – 3.5 m 11.50% 
3.5 – 4 m 6.42% 
4 – 6 m 82.08% 
300 CI 2,004 0.87% 0.9 
3 – 3.5 m 13.02% 
3.5 – 4 m 10.88% 
4 – 6 m 61.88% 
6 – 8 m 14.22% 
350 CI 1,620 0.70% 0.9 
0 – 2 m 24.89% 
2 – 2.5 m 21.23% 
2.5 – 3 m 15.86% 
3 – 3.5 m 4.38% 
3.5 – 4 m 3.58% 
4 – 6 m 21.23% 
6 – 8 m 8.83% 
400 CI 1,262 0.55% 0.9 
0 – 2 m 27.43% 
2 – 2.5 m 20.52% 
2.5 – 3 m 11.33% 
3 – 3.5 m 6.81% 
3.5 – 4 m 9.03% 
4 – 6 m 24.88% 
0 – 2 m 43.05% 
---PAGE BREAK---
106 
 
Dia of 
Sewer 
Sewer 
Material 
Total Length of 
Sewers to be laid 
(m) 
Percentage of 
Length 
(diameter-wise) 
Width of 
Trench(m) 
Depth of Trench & 
Percentage of Sewer 
Length (%) 
450 CI 1,338 0.58% 0.9 
2 – 2.5 m 10.76% 
2.5 – 3 m 4.26% 
3 – 3.5 m 7.77% 
3.5 – 4 m 2.17% 
4 – 6 m 25.56% 
6 – 8 m 6.43% 
500 CI 1,503 0.65% 1.0 
0 – 2 m 17.83% 
2 – 2.5 m 24.82% 
2.5 – 3 m 7.58% 
3 – 3.5 m 6.92% 
3.5 – 4 m 13.84% 
4 – 6 m 29.01% 
700 CI 5,513 2.39% 1.2 
0 – 2 m 6.69% 
2 – 2.5 m 11.26% 
2.5 – 3 m 4.14% 
3 – 3.5 m 10.96% 
3.5 – 4 m 12.59% 
4 – 6 m 54.36% 
 
Table 36: Sewer Construction (Zone VII) 
Dia of 
Sewer 
Sewer 
Material 
Total Length of 
Sewers to be laid 
(m) 
Percentage of 
Length 
(diameter-wise) 
Width of 
Trench(m) 
Depth of Trench & 
Percentage of Sewer 
Length (%) 
200 DWC 2,39,524 80.11% 0.8 
0 – 2 m 83.47% 
2 – 2.5 m 9.98% 
2.5 – 3 m 6.46% 
4 – 6 m 0.08% 
6 – 8 m 0.01% 
250 DWC 2,243 0.75% 0.8 
0 – 2 m 61.70% 
2 – 2.5 m 14.27% 
2.5 – 3 m 18.99% 
3 – 3.5 m 4.10% 
3.5 – 4 m 0.94% 
300 DWC 2,000 0.67% 0.9 
0 – 2 m 49.85% 
2 – 2.5 m 33.45% 
2.5 – 3 m 16.70% 
200 CI 29,674 9.92% 0.8 
0 – 2 m 0.68% 
2 – 2.5 m 0.29% 
2.5 – 3 m 0.67% 
3 – 3.5 m 31.07% 
3.5 – 4 m 26.52% 
4 – 6 m 38.97% 
6 – 8 m 1.80% 
250 CI 3,803 1.27% 0.8 
0 – 2 m 1.50% 
2.5 – 3 m 3.00% 
3 – 3.5 m 12.25% 
3.5 – 4 m 18.01% 
---PAGE BREAK---
107 
 
Dia of 
Sewer 
Sewer 
Material 
Total Length of 
Sewers to be laid 
(m) 
Percentage of 
Length 
(diameter-wise) 
Width of 
Trench(m) 
Depth of Trench & 
Percentage of Sewer 
Length (%) 
4 – 6 m 57.82% 
6 – 8 m 7.42% 
300 CI 1,192 0.40% 0.9 
3 – 3.5 m 19.46% 
3.5 – 4 m 5.54% 
4 – 6 m 67.11% 
6 – 8 m 7.89% 
350 CI 2,340 0.78% 0.9 
0 – 2 m 28.25% 
2 – 2.5 m 2.05% 
2.5 – 3 m 14.66% 
3 – 3.5 m 6.37% 
3.5 – 4 m 19.49% 
4 – 6 m 29.18% 
400 CI 3,042 1.02% 0.9 
0 – 2 m 16.54% 
2 – 2.5 m 9.43% 
2.5 – 3 m 1.91% 
3 – 3.5 m 4.80% 
3.5 – 4 m 2.83% 
4 – 6 m 62.62% 
6 – 8 m 1.87% 
450 CI 2,238 0.75% 0.9 
0 – 2 m 2.59% 
2 – 2.5 m 10.28% 
2.5 – 3 m 11.04% 
3 – 3.5 m 5.09% 
3.5 – 4 m 8.94% 
4 – 6 m 56.56% 
6 – 8 m 5.50% 
500 CI 4,970 1.66% 1.0 
0 – 2 m 29.56% 
2 – 2.5 m 8.69% 
2.5 – 3 m 19.50% 
3 – 3.5 m 10.91% 
3.5 – 4 m 5.17% 
4 – 6 m 22.35% 
6 – 8 m 3.82% 
600 CI 2,626 0.88% 1.1 
0 – 2 m 36.18% 
2 – 2.5 m 3.27% 
2.5 – 3 m 8.57% 
3 – 3.5 m 2.17% 
3.5 – 4 m 2.21% 
4 – 6 m 42.16% 
6 – 8 m 5.44% 
700 CI 5,350 1.79% 1.2 
0 – 2 m 12.00% 
2 – 2.5 m 19.35% 
2.5 – 3 m 20.26% 
3 – 3.5 m 16.52% 
3.5 – 4 m 4.62% 
4 – 6 m 26.71% 
6 – 8 m 0.54% 
---PAGE BREAK---
108 
 
 
131. Earth work excavation will be undertaken by machine (backhoe excavator) and include 
danger lighting and using sight rails and barricades. The work will also be supplemented manually 
where there is no proper working area (e.g., very narrow streets)  for the backhouse excavators. 
As trenches are deep (up to 6 -8 m), there is risk of collapse of trenchesand/ordamage to 
surrounding buildings, safety risk to pedestrians and traffic. Necessary precautions such as 
bracing / shoring in the trench will be provided for trenches of more than 1.2 m deep. The normal 
working hours will be 8 hours daily, the total duration of each stage depends on the soil condition 
and other local features. Excavated soil will be used for refilling the trench after placing the sewer 
and therefore residual soil after pipe laying and refilling is not significant. Total earthwork 
excavation will be over 724,450m3, of which nearly 95% will be reused, and the remaining 36,000 
m³ of excess soil needs to be disposed safely, to the places indicated by the CCMC, by conveying 
in lorries, covered with dust screen in order to avoid dusting and spoiling roads, etc. .The 
excavation in hard rock if any encountered during implementation will be carried out by controlled 
blasting technique after obtaining statutory permits and following all mitigation and safety  
measures. 
 
132. Although sewer laying work involves quite simple techniques of civil work, except the 
stretches where the controlled blasting is needed, the invasive nature of excavation in the urban 
areawhere there are a variety of human activities, will result in impacts to the environment and  
sensitive receptors such as residents, businesses, and the community in general. These 
anticipated impacts are temporary and for short duration, however, needs to be mitigated. 
 
133. Sewers will extend to all residential and developed areas, while large diameter sewers will 
be laid mostly along the main roads. These main roads include a State highways (Coimbatore-
Maruthamalai Road (SH-167) and Corporation Roads. The next level roads ar e internal main 
roads providing connectivity within the city. These include:  Edayarpalayam road, Thondamuthur 
road, Vedapatty road, Onapalayam road, Ajjanur road, Sundapalayam road, etc., Main road carry 
considerable flow of traffic and are centres of commercial activities, institutons, etc., 
 
134. Anticipated impacts during the construction phase are discussed below along with 
appropriate mitigation measures to avoid, minimize or mitigate those impacts to acceptable levels. 
 
135. Sources of Materials. Significant amount of sand andcoarse aggregate will be required 
for this project, which will be sourced from quarries. Quarries inevitably cause extensive physical 
changes; as construction materials are excavated from the ground, leaving large cavities, or 
levelling hillsides, etc. The physical damage caused by quarries is controlled by allowing them to 
operate within specific limited areas only, so the damage is restricted in extent and not allowed to 
spread indiscriminately. New quarries are subject to a rigorous proce ss of environmental 
assessment to ensure appropriate siting and adequate environmental controls on the operation. 
It will therefore be important to ensure that construction materials for this project are obtained 
from existing government approvedlicensed quarries only, to ensure these controls are in place. 
In Coimbatore, gravel and aggregate is available locally in Coimbatore district, which is known for 
stone quarries. Contractor should procure sand  from the government approved quarr ies having 
valid clearanceContractor should not create / use anynew borrow pits / quarries. The contractor 
should also make a concerted effort to re -use as much excavated material from this project as 
possible. The construction contractor will be required to: 
(i) Obtain constr uction materials only from government approved quarries with prior 
approval of PIU 
(ii) PIU to review, and ensure that proposed quarry sources have all necessary 
consents/clearances/ permissions in place prior to approval 
---PAGE BREAK---
109 
 
(iii) Contractor to submit to PIU on a monthly basis documentation on material obtained 
from each sources (quarry/ borrow pit) 
(iv) Avoid creation of new borrow areas, quarries etc., for the project; if unavoidable, 
contractor to obtain all clearances and permissions as required under law, including 
Environmental Clearance prior to approval by PIU 
 
136. Air Quality. Construction work, especially from earthwork activities,  including controlled 
blasting works,  coupled with dry and windy working conditions, material and debris transport, and 
works along the publi c roads carrying significant traffic, have high potential to generate 
dustSignificant quantities of earthwork will be conducted in the subproject, spread all over the  
project area. Over 724,450 m3 of earthwork is anticipated from the subproject, and 95% of which 
will be reused for filling the trenches. Also emissions from construction vehicles, equipment, and 
machinery used for excavation and construction will induce impacts on the air quality. Anticipated 
impacts include dust and increase in concentration of vehicle -related pollutants such as carbon 
monoxide, sulfur oxides, particulate matter, nitrous oxides, and hydrocarbons. Dust generation 
from construction work in individual and confined wor k sites like STP, pumping stations etc., will 
be mainly during the initial construction phase of earth work, as the site is confined,  dust can be 
effectively controlled with common measures. STP is located outside the city, away from 
habitation area. Dust generation will be significant during sewer laying along the roads.Increase 
in dust/ particulate matter in ambient air is detrimental,and may have adverse impacts on people 
and environment. To mitigate the impacts, construction contractors will be required to: 
 
1. For all construction works 
(i) Provide a dust screen (6 m high) around the construction sites of pumping 
and lifting stations and STP;provide 2 m high barricades for the sewer 
works 
(ii) Damp down the soil and any stockpiled material on site (will be covered in 
general conditions of the contract) by water sprinkling;(3 -4 times a day -  
before the start of work, 1 -2 times in between, and at the end of the day); 
when working in the roads there should permanently be one person 
responsible for directing when water sprinkling needs to take place to stop 
the dust moving;. 
(iii) Reduce the need  to sprinkle water by stabilizingsurface soils where 
loaders, support equipment and vehicles will operate by using water and 
maintain surface soils in a stabilized condition; 
(iv) Apply water prior to levelling or any other earth moving activity to keep the 
soil moist throughout the process; 
(v) Cover the soil stocked at the sites with tarpaulinsand surround by dust 
screens. 
(vi) Control access to work area, prevent unnecessary mo vement of vehicle, 
public trespassing into work areas; limiting soil disturbance will minimize 
dust generation; 
(vii) Use tarpaulins to cover the loose material (soil, sand, aggregate etc.,) when 
transported by open trucks;  
(viii) Control dust generation while unloadi ng the loose material (particularly 
aggregate, sand, soil) at the site by sprinkling water and unloading inside 
the barricaded area;minimize the drop height when moving the excavated 
soil 
(ix) Clean wheels and undercarriage of haul trucks prior to leaving construction 
site 
---PAGE BREAK---
110 
 
(x) Ensure that all the construction equipment, machinery are fitted with 
pollution control devises, which are operating correctly, and have a valid 
pollution under control (PUC) certificate. 
(xi) no vehicles or plant to be left idling at sitegenerators to be at placed 
maximum distance from properties. 
2. For sewerworks 
(i) Inform the residents likely to be affected by the works in the locality about 
the upcoming sewer laying works well in advance so that necessary 
arrangements are planned by the residents with reduced inconvenience. 
(ii) For sections where the controlled blasting is needed, the residents are 
provided with the schedule of blasting at least three days in advance and 
the residents will be explained about the preventive, precautionary, 
mitigation and emergency response measures being taken to address their 
concerns. 
(iii) Barricade the construction area using hard barricades (of 2 m height) on 
both sides  
(iv) Initiate site clearance and excavation work only after barricading of the site 
is done  
(v) Confine all the material, excavated soil, debris, equipment, machinery 
(excavators, cranes etc.,), to the barricaded area; 
(vi) Limit the stocking of excavated material at the site; remove the excess soil 
from the site immediately to the designated disposal area; 
(vii) Undertake the work section wise: a 500 section should be demarcated and 
barricaded; open up several such sections at a time, but care shall be taken 
to locate such sections in different zones; 
(viii) For sections involving controlled blasting, ensure that dust cur tains of 
adequate height are  provided to the trenches to prevent emission of dust 
during drilling for charge holes and controlled blasting. 
(ix) Ensure that the excavated soil and debris along the section identified for 
blasting is sprinkled with adequate wate r prior to blasting to reduce dust 
emissions upon explosion of charge placed for breaking the hard rock; 
(x) Conduct work sequentially - excavation, sewer laying, backfilling; testing 
section-wise (for a minimum length as possible) so that backfilling, 
stabilization of soil can be done; 
(xi) Remove the excavated soil of first section to the disposal site; as the work 
progresses sequentially, by the time second section is excavated, the first 
section will be ready for back filling, use the freshly excavated soil for back 
filling, this will avoid stocking of material, and minimize the dust; 
(xii) Backfilled trench at any completed section after removal of barricading will 
be the main source of dust pollution. The traffic, pedestrian movement and 
wind will generate dust from backfilled section. Road restoration shall be 
undertaken immediately.  
 
137. Immediate road restoration after refilling the trench. Excavation and refilling activities 
disturb the top soil, and under the influence of wind, traffic, pedestrians, and other activities etc., 
produces dust. There is large potential to generate significant quantities of dust after refilling the 
trench, and prior to road relaying. It is a common practice not to restore the road immediately after 
refilling the trench so as to allow sufficient time for the refilled material to stabilize naturally. Given 
the dry and windy conditions, and heavy traffic and other activities along the roads, the refilled 
trenches with loose top soil along the roads will generate maximum dust, and create very 
unhealthy conditions. Moreover, as the barricades/dust screens will removed after the trench is 
---PAGE BREAK---
111 
 
refilled, there will be absolutely nothing to control the dust generation. Dust control activities like 
wetting of top soil will not be effective given the site conditions.  It is therefore necessary to 
restore/relay the road surface immediately or take suitable steps to arrest the dus t. Soil 
consolidation technique shall be used so that road can be restored immediately.   
(i) Immediately consolidate the backfilled soil and restore the road surface; if 
immediate road restoration is not possible, provide a layer of plain cement 
concrete (PCC ) of suitable mix on the backfilled trench so that dust 
generation, erosion is arrested and it will also provide a smooth riding 
surface for the traffic until the road is properly restored. Backfilled trench 
without any road restoration is a major source of dust. 
 
138. Surface Water Quality. Run-off from stockpiled materials and chemicals from fuels and 
lubricants during construction works can contaminate water quality of the receiving water bodies 
and streams/rivers.Project area receives rainfall in southwest a nd northeast monsoon seasons, 
between June/July to November/December. Krishnampathy Kulam, Narasampathy Kulam are 
located neighbouring areas near the project area, Selvampathy lake & Kumarasamy lake and 
Sanganurpallam Streamare situated near the STP site of the project area and Noyyal River flows 
about 11.48 km away in the southern side. Noyyal River flows only during monsoon, rest of the 
time it carries mostly wastewater from the surrounding areas. Project area mostly drains into 
Noyyar river. It is important that runoff from the construction areas, which may contain silt and 
chemical traces do not enter these water bodies. Impact will be temporary, and but needs to be 
mitigated. Construction contractor will be required to: 
(i) All earthworks be conducted during the dry season to prevent the problem 
of soil/silt run-off during rains 
(ii) Avoid stockpiling of earth fill especially during the monsoon season unless 
covered by tarpaulins or plastic sheets;do not stock earth/material close to 
water bodies (at least100 m) 
(iii) Prioritize re-use of excess spoils and materials in the construction works. If 
spoils will be disposed, only designated disposal areas shall be used; 
(iv) Install temporary silt traps, oil traps, or sedimentation basins along the 
drainage leading to the water bodies; 
(v) Place storage areas (with impermeable surface)for fuels and lubricants 
away from any drainage leading to water bodies; these should be at least 
100 m away from water bodies and groundwater wells; 
(vi) Store fuel, construction chemicals etc., on an impervious floor, also avoid 
spillage by careful handling; provide spill collection sets for effective spill 
management 
(vii) Dispose any wastes generated by construction activities in designated 
sites; and 
(viii) Conduct surface waterquality inspection according to the  Environmental 
Management Plan (EMP). 
 
139. Surface and Groundwater Quality. Another physical impact that is often associated with 
excavation is the effect on drainage and the local water table if groundwater and surface water 
collect in the voids. In the project area, groundwater table is much deeper than the anticipated 
excavation depth and therefore this impact is not envisaged. However during the rains, water will 
be collected in open pits and trenches. The water collected in excavated pits will  
contain silt and disposal of this in drainage channels lead to silting. To avoid t his the contractor 
needs to implement the following measures: 
---PAGE BREAK---
112 
 
(i) As far as possible control the entry of runoff from upper areas into the 
excavated pits, and work area by creation of temporary drains or bunds 
around the periphery of work area; 
(ii) Pump out the wa ter collected in the pits/excavations to a temporary 
sedimentation pond; dispose off only clarified water into drainage 
channels/streams after sedimentation in the temporary ponds; 
(iii) Consider safety aspects related to pit collapse due to accumulation of 
water. 
 
140. Generation of Construction Wastes.  Solid wastes generated from the construction 
activities are excess excavated earth (spoils), discarded construction materials, cement bags, 
wood, steel, oils, fuels and other similar items. Domestic solid wastes may also be generated from 
the workers’ cam p. Improper waste management could cause odor and vermin problems, 
pollution and flow obstruction of nearby watercourses and could negatively impact the landscape. 
Total earthwork excavation will be over 724,450 m³, of which nearly 95% will be reused, and the 
remaining 36,000 m³ of excess soil needs to be disposed safely. The following mitigation 
measures to minimize impacts from waste generation shall be implemented by the contractor: 
(i) Prepare and implement a Construction Waste (Spoils) Management Plan 
(format is given in Appendix 3); 
(ii) As far as possible utilize the debris and excess soil in construction purpose, 
for example for raising the ground level or construction of access roads 
etc.; 
(iii) Avoid stockpiling any excess spoils at the site for long time. Excess  
excavated soils should be disposed off to approved designated areas 
immediately; 
(iv) If disposal is required, the site shall be selected (in consultation with the 
CCMC and local communities)preferably from barren, infertile lands; sites 
should located away from residential areas, forests, water bodies and any 
other sensitive land uses; 
(v) Domestic solid wastes should be properly segregated in biodegradable and 
non-biodegradable for collection and disposal to designated solid waste 
disposal site; create a compost pit(with impermeable bottom and sides)  at 
workers camp sites for disposal of biodegradable waste; non -
biodegradable / recyclable material shall be collected separately and sold 
in the local recycling material market; 
(vi) Residual and hazardous wastes such as oils, fuels, and lubricants shall be 
disposed offf via licensed (by TNPCB) third parties;At the time of execution, 
the work awarded contractor will be insisted and monitored regarding the 
storage of fuel, etc. as per the proviso ns mentioned  in the “ Hazardous 
Waste (Management & Handling) Rules ‘1989 
(vii) Prohibit burning of construction and/or domestic waste; 
(viii) Ensure that wastes are not haphazardly thrown in and around the project 
site; provide proper collection bins, and create awareness to use the dust 
bins; recycle waste material where possible 
(ix) Conduct site clearance and restoration to original condition after the 
completion of construction work; PIU to ensure that site is properly restored 
prior to issuing of construction completion certificate. 
 
141. Noise and Vibration Levels.  While pumping and lifting station sites are located 
predominantly urban and suburban areas, STP is located inside  the city , but with minimum 
residence.Sewer lines are spread over entire project area. Except STP, all these sites are located 
---PAGE BREAK---
113 
 
close to habitation areas, where there are houses, schools and hospitals, religiousplaces and 
businesses. The sensitive receptors arethe general population in these areas. Increase in noise 
level may be caused by excavation, particularly breaking of  cement concrete or bitumen roads 
and controlled blasting in hard rocks along the alignment for laying of sewers, operation of 
construction equipment, and the transportation of equipment, materials, and people. Vibration 
generated from construction activity, for instance from the use of explosives for controlled blasting 
and pneumatic drills, will have impact on nearby buildings. This impact is negativeshort-term, and 
reversible by mitigation measures. The construction contractor will be required to: 
(i) Plan activities in consultation with PIU so that activities with the greatest 
potential to generat e noise and vibrations such as controlled blasting are 
conducted during periods of the day which will result in least disturbance, 
especially near schools and other sensitive receptors 
(ii) Minimize noise from construction equipme nt by using vehicle silencers, 
fitting jackhammers with noise -reducing mufflers, and use portable street 
barriers to minimise sound impact to surrounding sensitive receptor; and 
(iii) Maintain maximum sound levels not exceeding 70 decibels (dBA) when 
measured at a distance of 10 m or more from the vehicle/s. 
(iv) Ensure to conduct a pre -blasting survey through videography and 
photography of residential properties and other structures falling along the 
sewerage alignment to ascertain the prevailing conditions of the structures 
likely to be impacted by the controlled blasting and take adequate 
measures to minimise such impacts. 
(v) Horns should not be used unless it is necessary to warn other road users 
or animals of the vehicle’s approach; 
(vi) Consult local communities in advance of the work to identify and address 
key issues, and avoid working at sensitive times, such as religious and 
cultural festivals. 
(vii) All the controlled blasting, shall be done by an approved and licensed 
Explosive contractor after submitting a blasting plan to PIU. 
 
142. Accessibility and Traffic Disruptions. Excavation along the roads for laying of sewers, 
(especially controlled blasting), hauling of construction materials and operation of equipment on-
site will cause traffic problems. There are two types of roads/highways in the project area that 
provide regional connectivity: state highway (SH) and other district roads (ODR) including internal 
corporation roads. Sewers are proposed along: 
(i) SH167(Coimbatore-MaruthamalaiRoad)& (Edayarpalayam-Vadavalli 
Road); 
(ii) Thondamuthur road; 
(iii) Vedapatti road; 
(iv) Ajjanur road; 
(v) Siruvani road; 
(vi) Onapalayam road; 
(vii) Sundapalayam road; 
At the inception of execution phase of the scheme itself, necessary permission for laying of sewers 
in the above roads will be sought for by the PIU from the concerned authorities. 
 
143. State highways carry considerable traffic, followed by MDRs and ODRs. Sewers will also 
be laid  along the internal main roads that provide connectivity within the city. These include: 
Thondamuthur road, Vedapatti road, Ajjanur road, Siruvani main road, Onapalayam road, 
Sundapalayam road, etc., These roads also carry considerable flow of traffic and are centres of 
commercial activities.  
---PAGE BREAK---
114 
 
 
144. Internal roads in the project area are include: Maruthamalai adivaram, IOB Colony, 
Kamatchi nagar, Nalvar nagar, Sri Ram Garden, SMR Nagar, Maharani avenue, E.B.Colony etc., 
have moderate/wide internal roads, and moderate traffic. 
 
145. As the sewer lines are proposed to be laid within the road carriage way, it will disrupt the 
traffic in one-traffic lane. In the narrower roads, sewers will be laid  in the center of the road, and 
therefore during the work traffic movement will be mostly disrupted.  
 
146. Works related to all the remaining components (lifting/pumping stations and STP) will be 
confined to the selected sites, therefore there is no direct int erference of these works with the 
traffic and accessibility.   
 
147. Hauling of construction material, equipment, construction waste, etc., to and from the work 
site may increase the road traffic on local roads.  This will further inconvenience the local 
community and road users. Potential impact is negative but short term and reversible by mitigation 
measures. The construction contractor will be required to:  
 
1. Sewer works 
(i) Prepare a sewer work implementation plan in each zone separately and 
undertake the work accordingly; ensure that for each road where the work 
is being undertaken there is an alternative road for the traffic diversion; take 
up the work in sequential way so that public inconvenience is minimal;  
(ii) Plan the sewer work in coordination with the traffic police; provide 
temporary diversions, where necessary with clear signageand effectively 
communicate with general public 
(iii) Avoiding conducting work in all roads in a colony at one go; it will render all 
roads unusable due to excavations at the same time, creating large scale 
inconvenience 
(iv) Undertake the work section wise, a 500 section should be demarcated and 
barricaded; open up several such sections at a time, but care shall be taken 
to locate such sections in different zones 
(v) Confine work areas in the road carriageway to the minimum possible 
extent; all the activities, including material  and  waste/surplus soil stocking 
should be confined to this area. Proper barricad ing should be provided; 
avoid material/surplus soil stocking in congested areas – immediately 
removed from site/ or brought to the as and when required; 
(vi) Limit the width of trench excavation as much as possible by adopting best 
construction practices; adopt vertical cutting approach with proper shoring 
and bracing; this is especially to be practiced in narrow roads and deeper 
sewers; if they deep trenches are excavated with slopes, the roads may 
render completely unusable during the construction period 
(vii) Leave spaces for access between mounds of soil to maintain access to the 
houses/properties; access to any house or property shall not be blocked 
completely; alternative arrangements, at least to maintain pedestrian 
access at all times to be provided; 
(viii) Provide pe destrian access in all the locations; provide wooden/metal 
planks with safety rails over the open trenches at each house to maintain 
the access; 
(ix) Inform the affected local population in advance about the work schedule, a 
week before, and  a day before start of work 
---PAGE BREAK---
115 
 
(x) Plan and execute the work in such a way that the period of disturbance/ 
loss of access is minimum; 
(xi) Keep the site free from all unnecessary obstructions; 
(xii) Notify affected public by public information notices, providing sign boards 
informing nature and duration of construction works and contact numbers 
for concerns/complaints. Provide information to the public through media – 
newspapers and local cable television (TV) services; 
(xiii) At work site, public information/caution boards shall be provided includin g 
contact for public complaints. 
(xiv) For sections where the controlled blasting is proposed, the residents are 
provided with the schedule of blasting atleast three days in advance and 
the residents are explained about the preventive, precautionary, mitigation 
and emergency response measures being taken to address their concerns. 
(xv) The contractor in coordination with the urban local body officials would 
conduct pre - blasting physical surveys through videography and 
photography of the adjacent residential propertie s and other structures 
along the sewerage alignment and take adequate measures to minimise 
such impacts. 
 
2. Hauling (material, waste/debris and equipment) activities: 
(i) Plan transportation routes so that heavy vehicles do not use narrow local 
roads, except in the immediate vicinity of delivery sites; 
(ii) Schedule transport and hauling activities during non -peak hours (peak 
hours 7 to 10 AM and 4 to 7 PM); 
(iii) Locate entry and exit points in areas where there is low potential for traffic 
congestion; 
(iv) Drive vehicles in a considerate manner; 
(v) Notify affected public by public information notices, providing sign boards 
informing nature and duration of construction works and contact numbers 
for concerns/complaints. 
(vi) For controlled blasting, required quantity of explosives shall be transported 
to the blasting site only through suitable explosive vehicle. After blasting is 
over, the balance explosives shall be returned to the licensed storage. 
 
148. Socio-Economic – Income. Sites for all projects components are carefull y selected in 
government owned vacant lands and therefore there is no requirement for land acquisition or any 
resettlement.Blocking of access to the business / livelihood activities, especially during pipeline 
laying along the roads, may impact the income of households. However, given the alignment of 
pipeline within the road carriage way, and also the measures suggested for ensuring accessibility 
during sewer works, notable but temporary impact is envisaged. Some shops and other premises 
along the roads ma y lose business income if the access will be impeded by excavation of 
trenches, the presence of heavy vehicles and machinery, etc. Access disruption to hospitals, 
socio cultural places etc., will inconvenience public. Implementation of the following best 
construction measures will avoid the disturbance reduce the inconvenience and disturbance to 
the public. Resettlement and social issues are being studied in a parallel resettlement planning 
study of this subproject. 
(i) Inform all businesses and residents about  the nature and duration of any 
work well in advance so that they can make necessary preparations; 
(ii) Do not block any access; leave spaces for access between 
barricades/mounds of excavated soil and other stored materials and 
---PAGE BREAK---
116 
 
machinery, and providing footbrid ges so that people can crossover open 
trenches; 
(iii) Barricade the construction area and regulate movement of people and 
vehicles in the vicinity, and maintain the surroundings safely with proper 
direction boards, lighting and security personnel – people should feel safe 
to move around  
(iv) Control dust generation; 
(v) Immediately consolidate the backfilled soil and restore the road surface; 
this will also avoid any business loss due to dust and access inconvenience 
of construction work; 
(vi) Employee best construction practices, speed up construction work with 
better equipment, increase workforce, etc., in the areas with predominantly 
commercial, and with sensitive features like hospitals, and schools; 
(vii) Consult businesses and institutions regarding operating  hours and 
factoring this in work schedules; and 
(viii) Provide sign boards for pedestrians to inform nature and duration of 
construction works and contact numbers for concerns/complaints. 
 
149. Socio-Economic – Employment. Manpower will be required during the 18-months 
construction stage. This can result in generation of temporary employment and increase in local 
revenue. Thus potential impact is positive and long -term. The construction contractor will be 
required to employ local labour force as far as possible. 
 
150. Occupational Health and Safety.  Workers need to be mindful of the occupational 
hazards which can arise from working in confined areas such as trenches, working at heights, 
near the heavy equipment operating areas, controlled blasting, etc.,. Potential impacts are 
negative and long-term but reversible by mitigation measures. The construction contractor will be 
required to: 
- 
(i) Follow all national, state and local labour laws (indicative list is inAppendix 
2); 
(ii) Develop and implement site -specific occupational health and safety (OH 
and S) Plan, informed by OHS risk assessment seeking to avoid, minimise 
and mitigate risk, including controlled blasting activity, which shall include 
measures such as: (a) safe and documented construction procedures to 
be followed for all site activities; (b) ensuring all workers are provided with 
and use personal protective equipment; (c) OH and S Training6 for all site 
personnel, (d) excluding public from the work sites; and (e) documentation 
of work -related accidents;  Follow International Standards such as the 
World Bank Group’s Environment, Health and Safety Guidelines7. 
 
 
6 Some of the key areas that may be covered during training as they relate to the primary causes of accidents include 
(i) slips, trips and falls; (ii) personal protective equipment; (iii) ergonomics, repetitive motion, a nd manual handling; 
(iv) workplace transport; and (v) legislation and responsibilities. Training can provide the foundations of competence 
but it does not necessarily result in a competent worker. Therefore, it is essential to assess staff competence to 
ensure that the training provided is relevant and effective. Supervision and monitoring arrangements shall be in place 
to ensure that training has been effective and the worker is competent at their job. The level of supervision and 
monitoring required is a management decision that shall be based on the risks associated with the job, the level of 
competence required, the experience of the individual and whether the worker works as part of a team or is a lone 
worker. 
7http://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/a99ab8804365b27aa60fb6d3e9bda932/EHS-Guidelines+101-
Webinar.pdf?MOD=AJPERES 
---PAGE BREAK---
117 
 
(iii) Ensure that qualified first -aid is provided at all times. Equipped first -aid 
stations shall be easily accessible throughout the sites; 
(iv) Secure all installations from unauthorized intrusion and accident risks 
(v) Provide health and safety orientation training to all new workers to ensure 
that they are apprised of the basic site rules of work at the site, personal 
protective protection, and preventing injuring to fellow workers; 
(vi) Provide visitor orientation if visitors to the site can gain access to areas 
where hazardous conditions or substances may be present. Ensure also 
that visitor/s do not enter hazard areas unescorted; 
(vii) Ensure the visibility of workers through their use of high visibility vests and 
other PPE when working in or walking through heavy equipment operating 
areas; 
(viii) Ensure moving equipment is outfitted with audible back-up alarms; 
(ix) Mark and provide sign boards for hazardous areas such as energize d 
electrical devices and lines, service rooms housing high voltage equipment, 
and areas for storage and disposal. Signage shall be in accordance with 
international standards and be well known to, and easily understood by 
workers, visitors, and the general public as appropriate; and 
(x) Disallow worker exposure to noise level greater than 85 dBA for duration 
of more than 8 hours per day without hearing protection. The use of hearing 
protection shall be enforced actively. 
(xi) Provide supplies of potable drinking water; 
(xii) Provide clean eating areas where workers are not exposed to hazardous 
or noxious substances 
 
151. Community Health and Safety.Sewers works anddeep excavations along the roads and 
narrow streets, and hauling of equipment and vehicles have potential to create safety risks to the 
community. Deep excavations without any proper protection may endanger the close by buildings. 
Hazards posed to the public, specifically in high-pedestrian areas may include traffic  
accidents and vehicle collision with pedestrians. Potential impact is negative but short -term and 
reversible by mitigation measures. The construction contractor will be required to: 
(i) Confine work areas; prevent public access to all areas where construction 
works are on-going through the use of barricading and security personnel 
(ii) Attach warning signs, blinkers to the barricading to caution the public about 
the hazards associated with the works, and presence of deep excavation 
(iii) Minimize the duration of time when the sewer trench is left open through 
careful planning; plan the work properly from excavation to refilling and 
road relaying 
(iv) Control dust pollution – implement dust control me asures as suggested 
under air quality section  
(v) Ensure appropriate and safe passage for pedestrians along the work sites  
(vi) Provide road signs and flag persons to warn of on -going trenching 
activities.. 
(vii) Restrict construction vehicle movements to defined acces s roads and 
demarcated working areas (unless in the event of an emergency) 
(viii) Enforce strict speed limit (20 -30 kmph) for plying on unpaved roads, 
construction tracks 
(ix) Provide temporary traffic control (e.g. flagmen) and signs where necessary 
to improve safety and smooth traffic flow 
---PAGE BREAK---
118 
 
(x) Where traffic is diverted around crossings, traffic control or careful selection 
of the exit from the working areas will be provided with the aim of ensuring 
that vehicles join the road in a safe manner.  
(xi) At sensitive locations particularly where there are schools and markets 
close to the road, awareness of safety issues will be raised through 
neighbourhood awareness meetings 
(xii) All drivers and equipment operators will undergo safety training 
(xiii) Maintain regularly the constru ction equipment and vehicles; use 
manufacturer-approved parts to minimize potentially serious accidents 
caused by equipment malfunction or premature failure. 
 
152. Safety Measures for Controlled blasting  during excavation: Presence of sub -surface 
rock does not occur in the alignment in the Sub-project.However during excavation if identified by 
any chance,  alternatives like drilling and chiselling, controlled blasting etc shall be examined and 
the suitable technology will be identified depending upon the site conditions. Wherever controlled 
blasting is proposed, the following measures shall be carried outfor execution in a safe manner.  
(i) Carryout controlled blasting  in consultation with PIU so that blasting 
activities with  generatingleast vibration are condu cted during 
periods of the day which will result in least disturbance; especially 
near schools and other sensitive receptors  
(ii) The contractor shall submit a blasting plan in advance to PIU; and 
implement in accordance to the plan. 
(iii) Permission  shall be  obta ined from The District Collector , Coimbatore for 
controlled blasting for  excavation and the conditions issued shall be 
complied with during implementation.  
(iv) Blasting shall be done through an licensed Explosive Contractor only.  
(v) For controlled blasting, explosives including blasting caps, shall be 
transported to the blasting site only through exclusive vehicle in safe 
manner in accordance with the requirements of the blasting license. After 
blasting is over, the balance explosives shall be returned to the licensed 
storage. 
(vi) Cost for implementation of mitigation measures and liability are the 
responsibility of contractor. 
(vii) Proper prior notice will be issued to the Residents before Commencing 
UGSS activity works Schedule 
(viii) Prior information will be given to Police Officials 
(ix) Workers (Flagman) shall be stationed on both end of roads to warn people 
before firing any blastsand not to permit the traffic. 
(x) When blasting, ampl e warning shall be given to all persons within the 
vicinity prior to blasting. Warning signs shall be erected a minimum of 24 
hours prior to the blast time.The warning signs will state the time and date 
of each blast. 
(xi) Contractor shall ensure necessary precautions / protection (like excavated 
earth, sand -filled bags, etc) to reduce dust emissions, noise levels and 
vibrations. Sites shall be provided with necessary shields all around. 
(xii) Minimum explosive will be used for Control Blasting for residential areas. 
(xiii) After a blast has been fired, the Blast Control Specialist shall make a careful 
inspection to determine that all charges have exploded before employees 
are allowed to return to the operation.. 
---PAGE BREAK---
119 
 
(xiv) The contractor shall be responsible for any and all damages to property or 
injury to persons resulting from blasting or accidental or premature 
explosions that may occur in connection with use of explosives. The 
contractor shall do the activities after obtaining the blasting permission from 
District Collector, Coimbatore.  
(xv) For the diversion of traffic in the blasting area, the contractor shall prepare 
a traffic management plan and obtain permission from Coimbatore 
Corporation and traffic police. 
 
153. Construction Camps. Contractor may require to set up construction camps – for 
temporary storage of construction material (sewer, cement, steel, fixtures, fuel, lubricants etc.,), 
and stocking of surplus soil, and may also include separate living areas for migrant workers. The 
contractor will however be encouraged to engage local workers as much as possible. Operation 
of work camps can cause temporary air, noise and water pollution, and may become a source of 
conflicts, and unhealthy environment if not operated properly. Potential impacts are negative but 
short-term and reversible by mitigation measures. The construction contractor will be required to: 
(i) Consult PIU before locating project offices, sheds, and construction plants;  
(ii) Select a camp site away from residential areas (at least 100m buffer shall 
be maintained) or locate the camp site within the existing facilities of 
CCMC. 
(iii) Avoid tree cutting for setting up camp facilities 
(iv) Provide a proper fencing/compound wall for camp sites 
(v) Camp site shall not be located near (100 m) water bodies, flood plains flood 
prone/low lying areas, or any ecologically, socially, archeologically 
sensitive areas 
(vi) Separate the workers living areas and material storage areas clearly with 
a fencing and separate entry and exit  
(vii) Ensure conditions of liveability at work camps are maintained at the highest 
standards possible at all times; living quarters and construction camps shall 
be provided with standard materials (as far as possible to use portable 
ready to fit-in reusable cabins with proper ventilation); thatched huts, and 
facilities constructed with materials like GI sheets, tarpaulins, etc., shall not 
be used as accommodation for workers 
(viii) Camp shall be provided with proper drainage, there shall not be any water 
accumulation 
(ix) Provide drinking water, water for other uses, and sanitation facilities for 
employees; drinking water should be regularly testedto confirm that 
drinking water standards are met 
(x) Prohibit employees from cutting of trees for firewood; cont ractor should 
provide cooking fuel (cooking gas); fire wood not allowed 
(xi) Train employees in the storage and handling of materials which can 
potentially cause soil contamination 
(xii) Wastewater from the camps shall be disposed properly either into sewer 
system; i f sewer system is not available, provide on -site sanitation with 
septic tank and soak pit arrangements (100 m away from surface water 
body or groundwater well) 
(xiii) Recover used oil and lubricants and reuse or remove from the site; 
(xiv) Manage solid waste according to the following preference hierarchy: reuse, 
recycling and disposal to designated areas; provide a compost pit for bio 
degradable waste, and non -biodegradable / recyclable waste shall be 
collected and sold in local market 
---PAGE BREAK---
120 
 
(xv) Remove all wreckage, rubbish, or temporary structures which are no longer 
required; and 
(xvi) At the completion of work, camp area shall be cleaned and restored to pre-
project conditions, and submit report to PIU; PIU to review and approve 
camp clearance and closure of work site 
 
F. Operation and Maintenance Impacts 
154. After implementation of the Project, the Under Ground Sewege Scheme in the 4 added 
areas will be handed over by TWAD Board to the CCMC. Operation and Maintenance of the 
sewerage system will be carried out by CCMC.Operation will involve collection and conveyance 
of wastewater from houses to nearest lifting/pumping stations; operation of lifting/pumping 
stations to pump accumulated sewage ma in pumping stations; operation of main pumping 
stations to pump accumulated sewage to STPs; treatment of sewage at STP to meet the disposal 
standards; and final disposal of treated wastewater into Stream leading to Periyakulam for 
Vadavalli-Veerakeralam ar eas and into Sanganurpallam Stream leading to Noyyal river  for 
Kavundampalayam-Thudiyalur areas.  STPs are proposed under DBOT modality, and the 
contractor will prepare detailed designs for STP s including the outfall sewer and disposal 
arrangements. At present, treatment and disposal system is designed in outline only (preliminary 
design); and during the detailed design phase, the assessment will be updated accordingly. 
 
155. During its operation phase, STP located at Chokkampudur will treat 15.43million liters of 
wastewater every day and the STP at Kavundampalayam Compost Yard will treat 19.49 million 
liters of waste water every day . As discussed in the preconstruction stage impacts, various 
measures, following measures are suggested for detailed design t o avoid, mitigate any impacts 
on the environment due to operation of STP.  
(i) Process design to meet the stringent inland water disposal standards 
(ii) Conduct a detailed baseline water quality assessment of receiving water 
body for 
(iii) the entire Project – Noyyal River; monitor water quality periodically during 
operation phase as per the Environmental Monitoring Plan 
(iv) Develop a sludge management plan : Sludge management to collect, treat 
and dispose the accumulated sludge safely; sludge will be treated in a 
mechanical centrifuge which will thicken the sludge by separating the liquid, 
thicken sludge will be further dried, and dried sludge will be used as a soil 
conditioner in fields; Sludge will be tested periodically for heavy metal 
concentration.  
(v) Designing the entire system to maintain optimal flow and terminal pressure, 
and optimising the overall energy usage in sewer system, including STP   
(vi) Using low-noise and energy efficient pumping systems 
(vii) Installing the noise-producing pumps and motors etc., in enclosed buildings 
with noise reducing walls, and also maintaining adequate buffer to the 
nearby inhabited areas  
(viii) Provision of appropriate personal protection equipment to the workers and 
staff 
 
156. Treatment and  Disposal. Sewage treatment facility would be  designed to meet the 
present disposal standardsnotified by CPCB for disposal of treated wastewater  from STPs. The 
treated sewage effluent from the STP for Vadavalli and Verakeralam areas would be disposed  in 
the outlet stream of nearby Kumarasamy lake ,  which flows to Selva Chinthamani Kulam  at a 
distance of 2.5 Kms and thereon to Periyakulam at Ukkadam at a distance of 5.5 kms from the 
---PAGE BREAK---
121 
 
point of disposal.The carrying capacity of this Stream is 290 cusec.The Stream and the receiving 
waterbodies are owned and maintained by Coimbatore Corporation.The treated sewage effluent 
from the STP for Kavundampalayam and Thudiyalur areas would be disposed  in the 
SanganurPallam stream which is leading to Noyyal River at a distance of 11.48 Kms. The Carrying 
capacity of this Stream is 13485 cusec. This Stream is owned by Revenue Department and is 
maintained by PWD.Noyyal river, except in the monsoon, mostly carries wastewater from the 
villages and urban areas it flows through. It ultimately meets river Cauvery at Village Noyyal in 
Karur District, over 100 km east of Coimbatore. With the implementation of subproject, disposal 
of untreated wastewater from subproject areaswill be prevented, and also treated wastewater will 
be disposed into Lake /river. This will in fact improve the water quality, and therefore no adverse 
impacts envisaged. At present no water quality data of the receiving waterbodies are  available, 
and a detailed baseline will be established during the detailed design phase since the 
implementation modality of  this subproject is design -build. This is part of scope of work of 
DBOT(Design Build Operate Transfer)by the contractor.Any change / lowering of treatment 
efficiency during operation may lead to poor quality of wastewater and may further pollute River 
Noyyal. It is therefore critical that STP treats the sewage as designed. Operation and maintenance 
of STP and change in incoming sewage quality will have impact on the treatment efficiency. 
 
157. During the detailed design phase: 
(i) Conduct a detailed seasonal baseline water quality assessment of 
receiving water body – Selvachinthamani Lake, Periyakulam Lake, 
Sanganoor Pallam Stream&Noyyal River. 
(ii) Monitor water quality periodically during operation phase as per the 
Environmental Monitoring Plan 
158. STP operation. It must be ensured that the facility is operated with standard operating 
procedures and only by trained staff. Ensuring uninterrupted power supply with back-up facility is 
a must.Standard operating procedures and operation manual shall  be prepared by the contractor. 
Besides routine operation, this will cover all necessary items such as preventive maintenance, 
periodic maintenance and emergency maintenance, replacement of pumps, motors, and other 
electro-mechanical parts as per the design life to optimize energy use and system efficiency etc., 
Manual shall also include safety awareness and mock drills for worker safety.  
 
159. Quality of Raw Sewage.  As discussed previously, one of the critical aspects in STP 
operation is, change in raw sewage character istics at inlet of STP may affect the process and 
output quality. The system is designed for municipal wastewater, which does not include industrial 
effluent. Characteristics of industrial effluent widely vary depending on the type of industry, and 
therefore disposal of effluent into sewers may greatly vary the inlet quality at STP, and will upset 
process and affect the efficiency. There are no significant presence of industries with problematic 
water discharges in the subproject area, however, it is import ant that no wastewater from 
industries is allowed into the sewer network with strict monitoring and enforcement.  
 
160. Sewage sludge.  Sewage sludge contains harmful substances such as bacteria and 
pathogens, and nutrients like nitrogen, phosphates. Improper handling and disposal of the sludge 
will have adverse impacts on health and environment. STP will have proper facilities for handling, 
treatment and disposal of sludge safely with implementation of sludge management plan. 
Therefore no adverse impacts envisag ed.  The treatment and drying processes kill enteric 
bacteria and pathogens, and because of its high content of nitrates, phosphates and other plant 
nutrients the sludge is an excellent organic fertilizer for application to the land.The reuse of sludge 
should be preceded by rigorous bacteriological tests to confirm that the treatment methods render 
all dried sludge and effluent free from enteric bacteria and pathogens, so that it is safe to humans, 
animals and crops. Sludge shall also need to be periodically tested for presence of heavy metals, 
---PAGE BREAK---
122 
 
to check if it meets the compost standards specified the Solid Waste Management  and  Handling 
Rules, 2016.  
 
161. Following measures are to be implemented during the operation phase: 
(i) Ensure proper knowledge transfer, hands -on training to municipal staff 
engaged in STP operation has been provided by contractor prior to 
handover of facility; 
(ii) Ensure continuous uninterrupted power supply; 
(iii) Operate  and  maintain the facility following standard operating procedures 
of operational manual; 
(iv) Undertake preventive and periodic maintenance activities as required; 
(v) Maintain the mechanical / electrical parts as per the maintenance plan to 
avoid any hazards; 
(vi) Conduct periodic training to workers; 
(vii) Ensure that all safety apparatus at STP including personal protection 
equipment are in good condition all times; and are at easily accessible and 
identifiable  
(viii) place; periodically check the equipment, and conduct mock drills to deal 
with emergency situations; 
(ix) Implement sludge management plan at the STP; 
(x) No wastewater from industrial premises (including domestic wastewater) 
shall be allowed to dispose into municipal sewers; 
(xi) Monitor regularly and ensure that there is no illegal discharge through 
manholes or inspection chambers; conduct public awareness programs; in 
coordination with TNPCB; 
(xii) Conduct regular wastewater quality monitoring (at inlet and at outlet of 
STP) to ensure that the treated effluent quality complies with design 
standards; 
(xiii) Conduct periodic te sting of dried sludge/compost to check presence of 
heavy metals and confirming to the applicable standards to use as 
compost. 
 
162. Odor and Noise from Sewage lifting and pumping stations.  Various measures are 
included in the design of these facilities giving utmost importance to odor and noise. Therefore it 
is anticipated there will not be any significant generation of odor or noise that will impact the 
surrounding households. Following measures are to be implemented during the operation:   
(i) Strictly follow stan dard operating procedures / operational manual for 
operation and maintenance of lifting and pump stations; 
(ii) Ensure that operating staff is properly trained, and have clear 
understanding of odor issues vis-à-vis its related with operational practices; 
(iii) Ensure that pumping cycles are properly followed; and there is no buildup 
of sewage beyond design volume in the wells; 
(iv) Conduct periodic H2S monitoring at pumping and lifting stations using 
handheld H2S meters. 
 
163. Sewer network. During the system design life (15/30 years for mechanical/civil 
components) it shall not require major repairs or refurbishments and should operate with little 
maintenance beyond routine actions required to keep the equipment in working order. The 
stability and integrity of the system will be monitored periodically to detect any problems and allow 
remedial action if required. Any repairs will be small-scale involving manual, temporary, and short-
---PAGE BREAK---
123 
 
term works involving regular checking and recording of performance for signs of deterioration, 
servicing and replacement of parts. 
 
164. There are also certain environmental risks from the operation of the sewer system, most 
notably from leaking sewer pipes as untreated fecal material can damage human health and 
contaminate both soil and groundwater. It will be imperative therefore that the operating agency 
establishes a procedure to routinely check the operation and integrity of the sewers, and to 
implement rapid and effective repairs where necessary. There is an occupation health risk to  
workers engaged in sewer maintenance activities. Following measures should be followed: 
(i) Establish regular maintenance program, including: 
a) Regular cleaning of grit chambers and sewer lines to remove grease, 
grit,and other debris that may lead to sewer backups. Cleaning should 
be conducted more frequently for problem areas; 
b) Inspection of the condition of sanitary s ewer structures and 
identifyingareas that need repair or maintenance. Items to note may 
include cracked/deteriorating pipes; leaking joints or seals at manhole; 
frequent lineblockages; lines that generally flow at or near capacity; 
and suspected infiltration or exfiltration; and  
c) Monitoring of sewer flow to identify potential inflows and outflows; 
d) Conduct repairs on priority based on the natu re and severity of the 
problem.Immediate clearing of blockage or repair is warranted where 
an overflow is currently occurring or for urgent problems that may 
cause an imminent overflow (e.g. pump station failures, sewer line 
ruptures, or sewer line blockages). 
(ii) Maintain records; review previous sewer maintenance records to help 
identify “hot spots” or areas with frequent maintenance problems and 
locations of potential system failure, and conduct preventative 
maintenance, rehabilitation, or replacement of lines as needed;  
(iii) When a spill, leak, and/or overflow occurs, keep sewage from entering the 
storm drain system by covering or blocking storm drain inlets or by 
containing and diverting the sewage away from open channels and other 
storm drain facilities (using sandba gs, inflatable dams, etc.). Remove the 
sewage using vacuum equipment or use other measures to divert it back 
to the sanitary sewer system. 
(iv) Prohibit/prevent disposal of wastewater/effluent from industrial units in the 
sewers; ensure regular checking to ensu re no illegal entry of industrial 
wastewater into sewers; 
(v) Develop an Emergency Response System for the sewerage system leaks, 
burst and overflows, etc.; 
(vi) Provide necessary health  and  safety training to the staff in sewer cleaning  
and  maintenance; 
(vii) Provide all necessary personnel protection equipment; 
(viii) Do not conduct manual cleaning of sewers; for personnel engaged sewer 
maintenance work, there is a risk due to oxygen deficiency and harmful 
gaseous emissions (hydrogen sulphide, methane,  etc.); provide for 
adequate equipment (including oxygen masks) for emergency use. 
(ix) Concentration of hydrogen sulphide, which is a flammable and highly toxic 
gas, in or near sewage infrastructure (sewers, man holes, sewage sumps, 
septic tanks, STPs) etc, is highly dangerous to operation and maintenance 
personnel and may lead to inhalation deaths if works are conducted in such 
conditions. Appropriate and safe conditions shall be ensured prior to start 
---PAGE BREAK---
124 
 
of any works; H2S levels confirming to ILO8 threshold limits 9 shall be 
ensured (1 ppm as TWA (time weighted average) usually 8 hours and 5 
ppm as STEL (short-term exposure limit) which is usually 15 minutes. 
 
165. Disaster management and Emergency Response.  The Revenue Department of the 
State is the Nodal De partment for controlling, monitoring and directing measures for organizing 
rescue, relief and rehabilitation. All other concerned line departments, municipal corporations, 
extends cooperation to the response management of the disaster whenever it occurs. C ontrol 
rooms at the State level as well as district control rooms are activated as required to deal with any 
disaster.  At state level, Tamil Nadu State Disaster Management Authority (TNSDMA) is 
established to plan, coordinate and monitor the disaster mana gement at state level.  District 
Disaster Management Authorities (DDMA), headed by respective District Collectors, established 
in each district to perform similar functions at the district level in coordination with TNSDMA. 
District disaster management pla ns are prepared for each district. DDMA prepares and 
implements the District Disaster Management Plan and plays the role of an anchor, monitors the 
disaster preparedness throughout the year and particularly review non -disaster activities and 
preparedness of the departments to handle situations.  DDMA assesses the situation and gives 
directions to the departments for handling of any disaster situation.  It can call for outside support, 
if necessary, and keeps the TNSDMA informed about the handling of the situation. Meetings are 
held periodically during the year to ensure that alertness and preparedness levels are maintained 
within the district. The state and district disaster management plans follows the Sendai Frame 
work for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2020. 
 
166. Disaster Management in Municipal Corporation Area.  Coimbatore District disaster 
management plan includes the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation  as an integral part, and 
CCMC plays very important role in disaster management within its jurisdiction and works under 
the overall coordination of District Collector, DDMA. District disaster management plan identifies 
the  highlights the responsibilities of urban local bodies, and CCMC is a member of district disaster 
management committee. The CCMC defined roles and responsibilities of all departments within 
its jurisdiction in disaster management. 
 
 
 
8 International Labour Organization  
9 https://www.ilo.org/dyn/icsc/showcard.display?p_card_id=0165&p_version=1&p_lang=en 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
125 
 
VII. PUBLIC CONSULTATION AND INFORMATION DISCLOSURE 
A. Overview 
167. The active participation of stakeholders including local community, /, Non-Governmental 
Organization (NGOs)/ Community Based Organization  (CBOs)etc., in all stages of project 
preparation and implementation is essential for successful implementation of the project. It will 
ensure that the subprojects are designed, constructed, and operated with utmost consideration 
to local needs, ensures community acceptance, and will bring maximum benefits to the people. 
Public consultation and information disclosure is a must as per the ADB policy. 
 
168. Most of the main stakeholders have already been identified and consulted during 
preparation of this IEE, and any others that are identified during project implementation will be 
brought into the process in the future. Primary stakeholders of the subpr oject are: residents, 
shopkeepers and businesspeople who live and work near sites where facilities will be built (sewer 
network, pumping/lifting stations and STP), government and utility agencies responsible for 
provision of various services in project are a. Secondary stakeholder are: NGOs and CBOs 
working in the area, community representatives, beneficiary community in general, government 
agencies, TNUIFSL, Government of Tamil Nadu and the ADB. 
 
B. Public Consultation 
169. The public consultation and disclosure pr ogram is a continuous process throughout the 
project implementation, including project planning, design and construction. 
 
a. Consultation during Project Preparation 
170. The subproject proposal is formulated by Coimbatore corporation (through TWAD ) in 
consultation with the public representatives bodies in the project area to suit their requirements.  
 
171. Focus-group discussions with other stakeholders were conducted during project 
preparation, and information on likely issues and the proposed mitigation and monitoring  
measures provided, to learn their views and concerns. A socio economic household survey has 
been conducted in the project area, covering sample households, to understand the household 
characteristics, health status, and the infrastructure service levels, and also the demand for 
infrastructure services. General public and the people residing along the project acti vity areas 
were also consulted. 
 
172. A project area level consultation workshop it wasconducted in Coimbatore in the Sub -
project areas (Vadavalli & Th udiyalur) on 15 thDecember 2020, with the public representatives, 
prominent citizens, NGOs, etc. Considering the COVID -19 pandamic situation, the necessary 
precautions such as thermal screening, mask, sanitizer for the participants were undertaken. 
 
173. During the meeting, the public participants are very much interested and welcomed the 
UGSS to their area. They assured full -cooperation while implementing the UGSS. Details of 
consultation is provided in Appendix 9. 
 
174. It was observed that people are willing to extend their cooperation as the proposed project 
will provide sewerage system, enhance basic infrastructure service levels and overall living 
standard of the public. The public expressed their concern regarding the nuisance and 
disturbance (dust, road clos ure and traffic management activities) during the construction stage 
---PAGE BREAK---
126 
 
which can have impact on their day to day activities. Public demanded for advance notice before 
construction and proper warning signs along the construction area to avoid accidents and 
inconvenience. Public opined that an appropriate operation and maintenance system should be 
in place for sewerage system for its best functioning and to have the maximum health and 
aesthetic benefits. Issue of bad odors from lifting and pumping stations loca ted close to the 
houses is also raised. Project team explained proposed EMP to manage the  negative impacts, 
including odor prevention and control measures included in the design and operation. 
 
b. Consultation during construction 
175. Prior to start of constructi on, PIU will conduct information dissemination sessions at 
various places and solicit the help of the local community, leaders/prominent for the project work 
as and when required. Focus group meetings will be conducted to discuss and plan construction 
work (mainly pipeline work) and create awareness with local communities about the construction 
activity including controlled blasting to reduce disturbance and other impacts and also regarding 
the project grievance redress mechanism. Project information and co nstruction schedule will be 
provided to the public via mass media (newspapers, television, ULB websites etc.,). A  constant 
communication will be established with the affected communities to redress the environmental 
issues likely to surface during construc tion phase.Contractor will provide prior public information 
(in Tamil and English) about the construction work in the areaonce 7 days prior to the start of work 
and again a day before the start of work via pamphlets (a sample public information template is  
provided in Appendix 4). At the work sites, public information boards will also be provided to 
disseminate project related information. 
 
C. Information Disclosure 
176. Executive summary of the IEE will be translated in Tamiland made available at the offices 
of PMU, PIU (TWAD) and CCMC and also displayed on their notice boards. Hard copies of the 
IEE will be accessible to citizens as a means to disclose the document and at the same time 
creating wider public awareness. Electronic version of the IEE in English and Executive Summary 
in Tamil will be placed in the official website of the TNUIFSL and Coimbatore Corporation after 
approval of the IEE by ADB. Stakeholders will also be made aware of grievance register and 
redress mechanism.  The IEE and environment monitorin g reports  prepared during the 
implementation stage will be publicly disclosed on ADB website as required by SPS 2009 and 
ADB’s Access to Information Policy, 2018. 
 
177. Public information campaigns to explain the project details to a wider population will be 
conducted. Public disclosure meetings will be conducted at key project stages to inform the public 
of progress and future plans. Prior to start of construction, the PIU will issue Notification on the 
start date of implementation in local newspapers A board s howing the details of the project will 
be displayed at the construction sites for the information of general public.  
 
178. Local communities will be continuously consulted regarding location of construction 
camps, access and hauling routes and other likely dis turbances during constructionas 
requiredwhile complying with the guidelines issued by the government for the current COVID -19 
pandemic conditions. The road closure together with the proposed detours will be communicated 
via advertising, pamphlets, radio broadcasts, road signage, etc. 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
127 
 
VIII. GRIEVANCE REDRESS MECHANISM 
179. A common GRM will be in place to redress social, environmental or any other project 
related grievances. The GRM described below has been developed in consultation with 
stakeholders. Public awareness campaign will be conducted to ensure that awareness on the 
project and its grievance redress procedures is generated. The campaign will ensure th at the 
poor, vulnerable and others are made aware of grievance redress procedures and entitlements 
per project entitlement matrix, and Project Management Unit(PMU) and Coimbatore Project 
Implementation Unit (PIU) to be established by TWADBoard will ensure that their grievances are 
addressed. 
 
180. Affected persons will have the flexibility of conveying grievances/suggestions by dropping 
grievance redress/suggestion forms in complaints/suggestion boxes or through telephone 
hotlines at accessible locations, by e-mail, by post, or by writing in a complaints register in CCMC 
or  PIU offices. PIU Safeguards officer will have the responsibility for timely grievance redress on 
safeguards and gender issues and for registration of grievances, related disclosure, and 
communication with the aggrieved party.  
 
181. GRM provides an accessible, inclusive, gender -sensitive and culturally appropriate 
platform for receiving and facilitating resolution of affected persons' grievances related to the 
project. A multi-tier grievance redress mechanism is conceived, with two ph ases viz., one at 
project level and another, beyond project level. For the project level GRM, a Grievance Redress  
 
182. Committee(GRC) will be established in PIUs; Safeguards officer, supported by the social, 
gender and environmental safeguards specialist of Co nstruction Management and Supervision 
Consultant (CMSC) will be responsible for creating awareness among affected communities and 
help them through the process of grievance redress, recording and registering grievances of non-
literate affected persons.  
 
183. GRM aims to provide a time -bound and transparent mechanism to voice and resolve 
social and environmental concerns linked to the project. All grievances – major or minor, will be 
registered. Documentation of the name of the complainant, date of receipt of th e complaint, 
address/contact details of the person, location of the problem area, and how the problem was 
resolved will be undertaken. PIU will also be responsible for follow -through for each grievance, 
periodic information dissemination to complainants on the status of their grievance and recording 
their feedback (satisfaction/dissatisfaction and suggestions). 
 
184. In case of grievances that are immediate and urgent in the perception of the complainant, 
the contractor, and PIU will resolve the issue on site, a nd any issue that is not resolved at this 
level will be dealt at PIU head level for immediate resolution. Should the PIU fail to resolve any 
grievance within the stipulated time period, the unresolved grievances will be taken up at CCMC  
(PIA) level. In the  event that certain grievances cannot be resolved even at CCMC (PIA)level, 
particularly in matters related to land purchase/acquisition, payment of compensation, 
environmental pollution etc., they will be referred to the district level Grievance Redress 
Committee (GRC) headed by the District Collector. Any issue which requires higher than district 
level inter -departmental coordination or grievance redress, will be referred to the state level 
Steering Committee. 
 
185. GRC will meet every month (if there are pendin g, registered grievances), determine the 
merit of each grievance, and resolve grievances within specified time upon receiving the 
---PAGE BREAK---
128 
 
complaint-failing which the grievance will be addressed by the state -level Steering Committee. 
The Steering Committee will resolve escalated/unresolved grievances received.   
 
186. Composition of Grievance Redress Committee.  GRC will be headed by the District 
Collector, and members include: PIU head, Safeguards Officer of PIU, representative of 
TNPCB(as a supporting arbitrator to explain and justify the compliance of the norms and rules of 
TNPCB to the affected in respect of pollution if any), one elected representative / prominent citizen 
from the area, and a representative of affected community. GRC must have a women member.  
 
187. State level steering committee will include Commissioner of Municipal Administration as 
chair, member include managing directors of TNUIFSL, CMWSSB, TWAD Board and others as 
necessary.  
 
188. Areas of Jurisdiction.  The areas of jurisdiction of the GRC, headed by the District 
Collector will be (i) all locations or sites within the district where subproject facilities areproposed, 
or (ii) their areas of influence within the District. The SC will have jurisdictional au thority across 
the state (i.e., areas of influence of subproject facilities beyond district boundaries, if any).   
 
189. The multi-tier GRM for the project is outlined below (Figure 31), each tier having time -
bound schedules and with responsible persons identif ied to address grievances and seek 
appropriate persons' advice at each stage, as required. The GRC will continue to function 
throughout the project duration. The implementing agencies/ULBs shall issue notifications to 
establish the respective PIU level grievance redress cells, with details of composition, process of 
grievance redress to be followed, and time limit for grievance redress at each level. 
 
Figure 45: Proposed TNUFIP Grievance Redress Mechanism 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
129 
 
190. Recordkeeping. Records of all grievances received, including contact details of 
complainant, date the complaint was received, nature of grievance, agreed corrective actions and 
the date these were effected and final outcome will be kept by PIU (with the su pport of CMSC) 
and submitted to PMU.  
 
191. Information dissemination methods of the GRM.  The PIU, assisted by CMSC will be 
responsible for information dissemination to affected persons and general public in the project 
area on grievance redress mechanism. Public awareness campaign will be conducted to ensure 
that awareness on the project and its grievance redress procedures is generated. The campaign 
will ensure that the poor, vulnerable and others are made aware of grievance redress procedures 
and entitlements per agreed entitlement matrix including. whom to contact and when, where/ how 
to register grievance, various stages of grievance redress process, time likely to be taken for 
redress of minor and major grievances, etc. Grievances received and responses provided will be 
documented and reported back to the affected persons. The number of grievances recorded and 
resolved and the outcomes will be displayed/disclosed in the PIU, offices, CCMC notice boards 
and on the web, as well as reported in the semi -annual e nvironmental and social monitoring 
reports to be submitted to ADB. A Sample Grievance Registration Form has been attached in 
Appendix 5. 
 
192. Periodic review and documentation of lessons learned.  The PMU will periodically 
review the functioning of the GRM and record information on the effectiveness of the mechanism, 
especially on the PIU’s ability to prevent and address grievances. 
 
193. Costs.All costs involved in resolving the complaints (meetings, c onsultations, 
communication and reporting/information dissemination) will be borne by the respective PIU. Cost 
estimates for grievance redress are included in resettlement cost estimates.  
 
194. Country legal procedure. An aggrieved person shall have access to the country's legal 
system at any stage, and accessing the country's legal system can run parallel to accessing the 
GRM and is not dependent on the negative outcome of the GRM. 
 
195. ADB’s Accountability Mechanism. In the event that the established GRM is not i n a 
position to resolve the issue, the affected person also can use the ADB Accountability Mechanism 
through directly contacting (in writing) the Complaint Receiving Officer (CRO) at ADB 
headquarters or the ADB India Resident Mission. The complaint can be submitted in any of the 
official languages of ADB’s developing member countries. Before submitting a complaint to the 
Accountability Mechanism, it is recommended that affected people make a good faith effort to 
resolve their problems by working with the co ncerned ADB operations department (in this case, 
the resident mission). Only after doing that, and if they are still dissatisfied, they could approach 
the Accountability Mechanism. The ADB Accountability Mechanism information will be included 
in the projec t-relevant information to be distributed to the affected communities, as part of the 
project GRM. 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
130 
 
IX. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN 
A. Environmental Management Plan 
196. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been developed to provide mitigation 
measures to reduce all negative impacts to acceptable levels. 
 
197. The EMP will guide the environmentally-sound construction of the subproject and ensure 
efficient lines of communication between TNUIFSL  (PMU), CCMC  (PIA), TWAD ( PIU), and 
contractors. The EMP will (i) ensure that the activities are undertaken in a responsible non -
detrimental manner; (i) provide a pro -active, feasible and practical working tool to enable the 
measurement and monitoring of environmental performance on site; (ii) guide and control the 
implementation of findings and recommendations of the environmental assessment conducted 
for the subproject; (iii) detail specific actions deemed necessary to assist in mitigating the 
environmental impact of the subproject; and (iv) ensure that safety recommendations are 
complied with. The EMP includes a monitoring program to measure the environmental condition 
and effectiveness of implementation of the mitigation measures. It will include observations on - 
and off-site, document checks, and interviews with workers and beneficiaries. 
 
198. The contractor will be required to submit to PIU, for review and approval, a Site 
Environmental Management Plan (SEMP) including (i) proposed sites/locations for construction 
work camps, storage areas, hauling roads, lay down areas, disposal areas for solid and 
hazardous wastes; (ii) specific mitigation measures following the approved EMP; and (iii) 
monitoring program as per SEMP. No works are allowed to commence prior to approval of SEMP. 
 
199. A copy of the EMP/approved SEMP will be kept on site during the construction period at 
all times. The EMP included in the bid and contract documents to ensure compliance to the 
conditions set out in this document.  
 
200. For civil works, the contractor will be required to (i) carry out all of  the mitigation and 
monitoring measures set forth in the approved  SEMP; and (ii) implement any corrective or 
preventative actions set out in safeguards monitoring reports that the employer will prepare from 
time to time to monitor implementation of this IEE and SEMP. The contractor shall allocate budget 
for compliance with these SEMP measures, requirements and actions. 
 
201. The following tables show the potential environmental impacts, proposed mitigation 
measures and responsible agencies for implementation and monitoring. 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
131 
 
Table 37: Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures – Sewer System 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
Design Stage 
Sewer network 
Nuisance due to 
leaks, overflows, 
contamination of 
water supplies, 
occupation health  
and  safety of 
workers, etc. 
(i) Limit the sewer depth where possible 
(ii) Sewers shall be laid away from water supply lines and drains (at 
least 1 m,), if not possible, sewer lines shall be laid below the water 
lines 
(iii) In all cases, the sewer line should be laid deeper than the water 
pipeline (the difference between top of the sewer and bottom of water 
pipeline should be at least 300 mm) 
(iv) In unavoidable cases, where sewers are to be laid close to storm 
water drains, appropriate pipe material (that has no or least 
infiltration risk)shall be selected (stoneware pipes shall be avoided) 
(v) For shallower sewers and especially in narrow roads, use small 
inspection chambers in lieu of manholes; 
(vi) Design manhole covers to withstand anticipated loads  and  ensure 
that the covers can be readily replaced if broken to minimize 
silt/garbage entry 
(vii) Ensure sufficient hydraulic capacity to accommodate peak flows  
and  adequate slope in gravity mains to prevent buildup of solids and 
hydrogen sulfide generation 
(viii)Ensure to conduct a pre-blasting survey through videography and 
photography of residential properties and other structures falling 
along the sewerage alignment to ascertain the prevailing conditions 
of the structures likely to be impacted by the controlled blasting and 
take adequate measures to minimize such impacts 
PIU/CCMC Project 
Costs 
Sewage pumping 
stations Odor nuisance 
Measures specific (additional) to New Pumping Station near 
household area  
(i) Maintain maximum buffer distance from the nearest residences to the 
pumping station wells;  
(ii) Locate pumping station as far as away from the road 
(iii) Develop green buffer zone around the facility with a combination of tall 
and densely growing trees in multi rows as per the land availability to 
control odor and also act as visual shield, and improve aesthetical 
appearance. Apart from green belt provision, mechanical odour control 
device has also been proposed. 
Design measures 
PIU /CCMC Project 
Costs 
---PAGE BREAK---
132 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(i) Proposed wells to be closed using RCC slabs. Design of RCC slab to 
consider both superimposed loads (human and equipment loads) and 
severe corrosion risk from sewer gas from within wells. 
(ii) RCC Slab to be designed and fixed in a modular manner such that 
access to pumps / appurtenances and other equipment can be 
provided for maintenance / replacement / renewal purposes. 
(iii) Since human intervention is involved and safety shall be primary and 
critical consideration, additional protection by way of a metalled grating 
/ grill work shall be provided over the sections (or full cross section if 
required) where workers will stand / work for inspection and 
repair/O&M purposes.  
(iv) Provision of passive gas ventilation arrangement by providing a take-
off vent from top of well by positioning vent in such a way that cover 
slab fitment / movement / drawl if required for maintenance purposes 
is not compromised.  
(v) Height of vent to be provided appropriately and a minimum 2 m above 
the lintel level (top level) of window(s) / passageways / doors in the 
nearby adjoining buildings. 
 Provision of odor control / mitigation system as per site conditions / 
requirements. 
(vi) Suitable granular activated carbon filter wi th bird-screen fitted at the 
vent outlet to control odor. Size of GAC (including material size) should 
be selected based on the vent diameter and expelled air flow rate 
expected. 
(vii)Submersible sewage pumps of suitable rating, minimum 
submergence require ments, open impeller with cutting -tearing 
arrangement and high strength -corrosion resistant heavy duty 
construction shall be proposed. 
(viii)In locations / cases where sewage flow in the present to intermediate 
design stage is envisaged to be low, position  of the submersible 
pumps and design of the collection well floor by providing necessary 
side benching / sloped flooring to allow for higher submergence during 
low flow shall be made to ensure regular pump operation and avoid 
sewage stagnation beyond the permissible limit. 
(ix) Diesel Generators shall be provided for all pump stations and in cases 
of lift stations with space for control room. In cases of lift manholes 
(road-side or road -center type structures with only provision of kerb -
---PAGE BREAK---
133 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
side kiosk), an electrical cut-out provision shall be made for connecting 
an Emergency Mobile / Skid Mounted Diesel Generator for pumping 
out during long period of electricity supply interruption. 
(x) Develop standard operating procedures / operational manual for 
operation an d maintenance of lifting and pump stations; this shall 
include measures for emerge situations  
(xi) Provide training to the staff in SOPs and emergency procedures 
(xii)  Periodically monitor odor generation at pumping stations  
 
Sewage pumping and 
lifting stations located 
close to houses 
(i) For sewage pumping stations which are located adjacent to houses 
with a buffer distance of less than 20 m from the sewage wells to 
nearest house/property boundary, a suitable arrangement such to 
capture the gaseous emissions from the wells and treat via 
scrubber/activated carbon filter before letting out into the ambient air; 
such system should be designed appropriately to meet the likely 
emissions/flow rate of respective pumping stations 
(ii) For lifting stations, the above arrangement should be provided where 
the buffer distance between sewage well and nearest house/property 
is less than 10 m. 
  
 Noise 
(i) Procure good quality latest technology high pressure pumps that 
guarantee controlled noise at a level of around 80dB(A) at a distance 
of 1 m  
(ii) Use appropriate building materials and construction techniques for 
pump houses which can absorb sound rather than reflect noise  
(iii) Use acoustic enclosures – manufacturer specified, for all pumps, 
motors  
(iv) Procure only CPCB approved generators to meet air emission and 
noise level requirements 
(v) Provide sound mufflers for ventilators in the plant rooms; a nd sound 
proof doors 
(vi) Provide ear plugs designated for noise reduction to workers 
(vii)Ensure to conduct a pre -blasting survey through videography and 
photography of residential properties and other structures falling along 
the sewerage alignment to ascertain the d prevailing conditions of the 
structures likely to be impacted by the controlled blasting and take 
adequate measures to minimize such impacts. 
PIU/CCMC 
 
Sewerage system Energy consumption (i)  Using low-noise and energy efficient pumping systems 
(ii) Efficient Pumping system operation PIU/CCMC Project 
Costs 
---PAGE BREAK---
134 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(iii) Installation of Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs) 
 Tree cutting 
(i)Minimize removal of trees by adopting to site condition and with 
appropriate layout design/alignment 
(ii)Obtain prior permission for tree cutting  
(iii) Plant and maintain 10 trees for each tree that is removed 
PIU/CCMC Project 
Costs 
Pre-Construction Stage 
Submission of 
updated 
Environmental 
Management Plan 
(EMP) / SEP; EMP 
implementation  and  
reporting 
Unsatisfactory 
compliance to EMP 
(i) Appoint Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Supervisor to ensure 
EMP implementation. 
(ii) Submission of updated EMP/ SEMP. 
(iii) Submission of plans along with SEMP 
 
• Construction Waste Management Plan  (covering spoils, 
debris, and other waste material generated from construction 
activity) 
• Traffic management plan 
• Occupational and Community Health and Safety Plan, 
including COVID-19 control and prevention plan 
• Cotrolled blasting plan (for hard rock removal/cutting , if 
required) 
• Chance find protocol 
• Temporary labour camp management plan 
 
(iv) Timely submission monthly of monitoring reports including 
documentary evidence on EMP implementation such as photographs. 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
Utilities 
Telephone lines, 
electric poles and 
wires, water lines 
within proposed 
project area 
(i) Identify and include locations and operators of these utilities in the 
detailed design documents to prevent unnecessary disruption  of 
services during construction phase; and 
(ii) Require construction contractors to prepare a contingency plan to 
include actions to be taken in case of unintentional interruption of 
services. 
Contractor in 
coordination with 
PIU  
Project cost 
Construction work 
camps, stockpile 
areas, storage 
areas, and 
disposal areas. 
Conflicts with local 
community; 
disruption to traffic 
flow and sensitive 
receptors 
(i) Prioritize areas within or nearest possible vacant space in the project 
location; 
(ii) If it is deemed necessary to locate elsewhere, consider sites that will 
not promote instability and result in destruction of property, 
vegetation, irrigation, and drinking water supply systems; 
(iii) Do not consider residential areas; 
Contractor to 
finalize 
locations in 
consultation 
and approval of 
PIU 
Project 
cost 
---PAGE BREAK---
135 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(iv) Take extreme care in selecting sites to avoid direct disposal to water 
body which will inconvenience the community. 
(v) For excess spoil disposal, ensure (a) site shall be selected preferably 
from barren, infertile lands. In case agricultural land needs to be 
selected, written  consent from landowners (not lessees) will be 
obtained; (b) debris disposal site shall be at least 200 m away from 
surface water bodies; (c) no residential areas shall be located within 
50 m downwind side of the site; and (d) site is minimum 250 m away 
from sensitive locations like settlements, ponds/lakes or other water 
bodies. 
Sources of 
Materials 
Extraction of 
materials can 
disrupt natural land 
contours and 
vegetation resulting 
in accelerated 
erosion, 
disturbance in 
natural drainage 
patterns, ponding 
and water logging, 
and water pollution. 
(i) Obtain construction materials only from the existing government 
approved quarries with prior approval of PIU 
(ii) PIU to review, and ensure that proposed quarry sources have all 
necessary clearances/ permissions in place prior to approval 
(iii) Contractor to submit to PIU on a monthly basis documentation on 
material obtained from each sources (quarry/ borrow pit) 
(iv) No  new borrow areas, quarries etc shall be developed., for the 
project 
Contractor  to 
prepare list of 
approved 
quarry sites 
and sources of 
materials with 
the approval of 
PIU 
Contracto
r cost 
 
Consents, 
permits, 
clearances, No 
Objection 
Certificates 
(NOCs), etc. 
Failure to obtain 
necessary 
consents, permits, 
NOCs, etc. can 
result to design 
revisions and/or 
stoppage of works 
(i) Obtain all necessary consents, permits, clearance, NOCs, etc. prior 
to award of civil works. 
(ii) Ensure that all necessary approvals for construction to be obtained 
by contractor are in place before start of construction 
(iii) Acknowledge in writing and provide report on compliance all 
obtained consents, permits, clearance, NOCs, etc. 
Contactor and 
PIU 
Cost of 
obtaining 
all 
consents, 
permits, 
clearance
, NOCs, 
etc. prior 
to start of 
civil works 
responsibi
lity of PIU. 
---PAGE BREAK---
136 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
Chance finds 
Damage / 
disturbance to 
artifacts 
(i) Construction contractors to follow these measures in conducting 
any excavation work 
(ii) Create awareness among the workers, supervisors and 
engineers about the chance finds during excavation work  
(iii) Stop work immediately to allow further investigation if any finds 
are suspected; 
(iv) Inform State Archaeological Department if a find is sus pected, and 
taking any action they require to ensure its removal or protection in situ. 
Contactor  and 
PIU 
Contractor 
cost 
Temporary 
economic impacts 
Disruption to vendors, 
hawkers on ROW 
during sewer laying  
(i) Contractor is required to provide notice to the shop owners of the need 
to shift kiosk/wares displayed on ROW as soon as the work plan is 
ready, with minimum 7 working days.  
(iii) No works can be commenced unless 100% shifted in sections ready 
for implementation. 
Contactor  and 
PIU 
Contractor /  
PIU 
Construction Stage 
EMP 
Implementation 
Training 
Irreversible impact to 
the environment, 
workers, and 
community 
(i) Project manager and all key workers will be required to undergo 
training on EMP implementation including spoils/waste management, 
Standard operating procedures (SOP) for construction works; 
occupational health and safety (OH and S), core labor laws, applicable 
environmental laws, etc. 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
Air Quality 
Dust, emissions 
from construction 
vehicles, 
equipment, and 
machinery used 
for installation of 
pipelines resulting 
to dusts and 
increase in 
concentration of 
vehicle-related 
pollutants such as 
carbon monoxide, 
sulfur oxides, 
particulate matter, 
nitrous oxides, 
and hydrocarbons. 
For all construction works  
(i) Provide a dust screen (6 m high) around the construction sites of 
pumping and lifting stations;  provide 2 m high barricades for the sewer 
works 
(ii) Damp down the soil and any stockpiled material on site by water 
sprinkling;(3-4 times a day before the start of work, 1 -2 times in 
between, and at the end of the day); when working in the roads there 
should permanently be one person responsible for directing wh en 
water sprinkling needs to take place to stop the dust moving; 
(iii) Reduce the need to sprinkle water by stabilizing surface soils 
where loaders, support equipment and vehicles will operate by using 
water and maintain surface soils in a stabilized condition 
(iv) Apply water prior to levelling or any other earth moving activity to 
keep the soil moist throughout the process 
(v) Cover the soil stocked at the sites with tarpaulins, and surround 
by dust screens. 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
---PAGE BREAK---
137 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(vi)Control access to work area, prevent unnece ssary movement of 
vehicle, public trespassing into work areas; limiting soil disturbance 
will minimize dust generation   
(vii)Use tarpaulins to cover the loose material (soil, sand, aggregate 
etc.,) when transported by open trucks;  
(viii) Control dust gen eration while unloading the loose material 
(particularly aggregate, sand, soil) at the site by sprinkling water and 
unloading inside the barricaded area; minimize the drop height when 
moving the excavated soil. 
(ix)Clean wheels and undercarriage of haul tr ucks prior to leaving 
construction site 
(x) Ensure that all the construction equipment, machinery are fitted with 
pollution control devises, which are operating correctly, and have a 
valid pollution under control (PUC) certificate. 
(xi) No vehicles or plant to be left idling at site generators to be at placed 
maximum distance from properties 
 
For sewer works  
(i) Barricade the construction area using hard barricades (of 2 m height) 
on both sides  
(ii) Initiate site clearance and excavation work only after b arricading of 
the site is done  
(iii)Confine all the material, excavated soil, debris, equipment, 
machinery (excavators, cranes etc.,), to the barricaded are. 
(iv) Ensure the adequate cover is provided  to the trenches to prevent 
emission of dust during controlled blasting 
(v) Limit the stocking of excavated material at the site; remove the 
excess soil from the site immediately to the designated disposal area 
(vi) Undertake the work section wise: a 500 section should be 
demarcated and barricaded; open up several such sections at a time, 
but care shall be taken to locate such sections in different zones 
(vii)Conduct work sequentially - excavation, sewer laying, backfilling; 
testing section -wise (for a minimum length as possible) so that 
backfilling, stabilization of soil can be done. 
(viii)Remove the excavated soil of first section to the disposal site; as 
the work progresses sequentially, by the time second section is 
excavated, the first section will be ready for back filling, use the freshly 
---PAGE BREAK---
138 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
excavated soil for back filling, this will avoid stocking of material, and 
minimize the dust. 
(ix)Backfilled trench at any completed section after removal of 
barricading will be the main source of dust pollution. The traffic, 
pedestrian movement and wind will generate dust from backfilled 
section. Road restoration shall be undertaken immediately. 
(x) Immediately consolidate the backfilled soil and restore the road 
surface; if immediate road restoration is not possible, provide a layer 
of plain cement concrete (PCC) of suitable mix on the backfilled trench 
so that dust generation, erosion is arrested and it will also provide a 
smooth riding surface for the traffic until the road is properly restored. 
Backfilled trench without any road restoration is a major sourc e of 
dust. 
(xi) For sections involving controlled blasting, ensure that dust curtains 
of adequate height are provided to the trenches to prevent emission 
of dust during drilling for charge holes and controlled blasting. 
(xii) Ensure that the excavated soil  and debris along the section 
identified for blasting sprinkled with adequate water prior to blasting to 
reduce dust emissions upon explosion of charge placed for breaking 
the hard rock. 
Surface water 
quality 
Mobilization of settled 
silt materials, and 
chemical 
contamination from 
fuels and lubricants 
during construction 
can contaminate 
nearby surface water 
quality.  
 
Ponding of water in 
the pits/foundation 
excavations  
(i)All earthworks be conducted during the dry season to prevent the 
problem of soil/silt run-off during rains 
(ii) Avoid stockpiling of earth fill especially during the monsoon season 
unless covered by tarpaulins or plastic sheets; do not stock 
earth/material close to water bodies (at least 100 m) 
(iii) Prioritize re-use of excess spoils and materials in the construction 
works. If spoils will be disposed, only designated disposal areas shall 
be used; 
(iv) Install temporary silt traps, oil traps, or sedimentation basins along 
the drainage leading to the water bodies; 
(v) Place storage areas (with impermeable surface) for fuels and 
lubricants away from any drainage leading to water bodies; these 
should be at least 100 m away from water bodies and groundwater 
wells) 
(vi) Store fuel, construction chemicals etc., on an impervious floor, also 
avoid spillage by careful handling; provide spill collection sets for 
effective spill management  
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
---PAGE BREAK---
139 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(vii) Dispose any wastes generated by construction activities in 
designated sites;  
(viii) Conduct surface quality inspection according to the Environmental 
Management Plan (EMP). 
Water accumulation 
in trenches/pits 
(i) As far as possible control the entry of runoff from upper areas into 
the excavated pits, and work area by creation of temporary drains or 
bunds around the periphery of work area 
(ii) Pump out the water collected in the pits / excavations to a temporary 
sedimentation pond; dispose off only clarified water into drainage 
channels/streams after sedimentation in the temporary ponds 
(iii) Consider safety aspects related to pit collapse due to accumulation 
of water 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
Noise Levels 
Increase in noise 
level due to earth-
moving and 
excavation 
equipment, and the 
transportation of 
equipment, materials, 
and people 
(i) Plan activities in consultation with PIU so that activities with the 
greatest potential to generate noise are conducted during periods of 
the day which will result in least disturbance; especially near schools 
and other sensitive receptors 
(ii)Minimize noise fr om construction equipment by using vehicle 
silencers, fitting jackhammers with noise -reducing mufflers, and use 
portable street barriers to minimize sound impact to surrounding 
sensitive receptor; and 
(iii) Maintain maximum sound levels not exceeding 80 de cibels 
(dBA) when measured at a distance of 10 m or more from the 
vehicle/s. 
(iv)Identify any buildings at risk from vibration damage and avoiding any 
use of pneumatic drills or heavy vehicles in the vicinity; if any building 
at risk, structural survey be completed prior to work, to provide 
baseline in case any issues from vibration, and if building is structurally 
unsound that measures taken to avoid any further damage 
(v)Horns should not be used unless it is necessary to warn other road 
users or animals of the vehicle’s approach; 
(vi)Consult local communities in advance of the work to identify and 
address key issues, and avoid working at sensitive times, such as 
night times, religious and cultural festivals. 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
Removal of rock 
during excavation 
for sewer works 
Increase in 
vibration due to 
the controlled 
(i) During excavation for sewer works, wherever removal of rock, if any, 
is identified, alternatives like drilling and chiseling, controlled blasting, 
etc., will be examined and the suitable technology shall be finalized 
Construction 
Contractor 
Cost for 
implement
ation of 
---PAGE BREAK---
140 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
blasting and 
associated 
activities. 
depending upon the site conditions. Following measures for ensuring 
safety shall be ensured during controlled blasting. 
(ii) Carryout controlled blasting  in consultation with PIU so that blasting 
activities with the least potential to generate vibration are conducted 
during periods of the day which will result in least disturbance; 
especially near schools and other sensitive receptors  
(iii) Permission shall be  obtained from The District Collector for 
controlled blasting for  excavation. Conditions stipulated in the 
permission issued by the District Collector shall be complied with 
during implementation. 
(iv) The contractor shall submit a blasting plan in advance to PIU; and 
implement in accordance to the plan. 
(v) Blasting shall be done through an Licensed Explosive Contractor 
only 
(vi) For controlled blasting, explosives including blasting caps, shall be 
transported to the blasting site only through exclusive vehicle in safe 
manner in accordance with the requirements of the blasting license. 
After blasting is over, the balance explosives shall be returned to the 
licensed storage. 
(vii) Cost for implementation of mitigation measures and liability are the 
responsibility of contractor. 
(viii) Proper prior notice will be issued to the Residents before 
Commencing UGSS activity works Schedule. 
(ix) Proper information will be Given to Police Officials. 
(x) Workers (Flagman) shall be stationed on both end of roads to warn 
people before firing any blasts and not to permit the traffic. 
(xi) When blasting, ample warning shall be given to all persons within 
the vicinity prior to blasting. Warning signs shall be erected a minimum 
of 24 hours prior to the blast time. The warning signs will state the time 
and date of each blast. 
(xii) Contractor shall ensure necessary precautions / protection (like 
excavated earth, sand-filled bags, etc.) to reduce Ground Vibrations, 
Reduce noise levels, etc. Sites shall be provided with necessary 
shields all around. 
(xiii) Minimum Explosive will be used for Control Blasting for Residential 
areas. 
mitigation 
measures 
responsibil
ity of 
contractor. 
---PAGE BREAK---
141 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(xiv) After a blast has been fired, the Blast Control Specialist shall 
make a careful inspection to determine that all charges have 
exploded before employees are allowed to return to the operation. 
(xv) The contractor shall be responsible for any and all damage to 
property or injury to persons resulting from blasting or accidental or 
premature explosions that may occur in connection with his use of 
explosives. 
(xvi) The contractor shall do the activities after obtaining the blasting 
permission from District Collector, Coimbatore. 
(xvii) For the diversion of traffic in the blasting area, the contractor 
shall prepare a traffic management plan and obtain permission from 
Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation and Traffic Police. 
(xviii)Ensure to conduct a pre -blasting survey through videography 
and photography of residential properties and other structures falling 
along the sewerage alignment to ascertain the d prevailing  
conditions of the structures likely to be impacted by the controlled 
blasting and take adequate measures to minimize such impacts 
Landscape and 
aesthetics – waste 
generation 
Impacts due to 
excess excavated 
earth, excess 
construction 
materials, and solid 
waste such as 
removed concrete, 
wood, packaging 
materials, empty 
containers, spoils, 
oils, lubricants, and 
other similar items. 
(i) Prepare and implement a Construction Waste Management Plan 
(refer Appendix 3) 
(ii) As far as possible utilize the debris and excess soil in 
construction purpose, for example for raising the ground level or 
construction of access roads etc.,  
(iii) Avoid stockpiling any excess spoils at the site for long time. 
Excess excavated soils should be disposed off to approved 
designated areas immediately 
(iv) If disposal is required, the site shall be selected preferably from 
barren, infertile lands; sites should located away from  residential 
areas, forests, water bodies and any other sensitive land uses 
(v) Domestic solid wastes should be properly segregated in 
biodegradable and non -biodegradable for collection and disposal to 
designated solid waste disposal site; create a compost  pit (with 
impermeable bottom and sides)at workers camp sites for disposal of 
biodegradable waste; non-biodegradable / recyclable material shall be 
collected separately and sold in the local recycling material market 
(vi) Residual and hazardous wastes such  as oils, fuels, and 
lubricants shall be disposed off via licensed (by TNPCB) third parties; 
(vii) Prohibit burning of construction and/or domestic waste; 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
---PAGE BREAK---
142 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(viii) Ensure that wastes are not haphazardly thrown in and around 
the project site; provide proper collection bins, and create awareness 
to use the dust bins, recycle waste material where possible. 
(ix) Conduct site clearance and restoration to original condition after 
the completion of construction work; PIU to ensure that site is properly 
restored prior to issuing of construction completion certificate 
Accessibility  and  
traffic disruptions 
Traffic problems and 
conflicts near project 
locations and haul 
road 
Sewer works 
(i) Prepare a sewer work implementation plan in each zone 
separately and undertake the work accordingly; ensure that for each 
road where the work is being undertaken there is an alternative road 
for the traffic diversion; take up the work in sequential way so that 
public inconvenience is minimal; prepare traffic management plans for 
each section (refer sample in Appendix 6) 
(ii) Plan the sewer work in coordination with the traffic police; 
provide temporary diversions, where necessary with clear signageand 
effectively communicate with general public 
(iii) Avoiding conducting work in all roads in a colony at one go; it will 
render all roads unusable due to excavations at the same time, 
creating large scale inconvenience 
(iv)Undertake the work section wise: a 500 section should be 
demarcated and barricaded; open up several such sections at a time, 
but care shall be taken to locate such sections in different zones 
(v) Confine work areas in the road carriageway to the minimum 
possible extent; all the activities, including material  and  waste/surplus 
soil stocking should be confined to this area. Proper barricading 
should be provided; avoid material/surplus soil stocking in congested 
areas – immediately removed from site/ or brought to the as and when 
required 
(vi)Limit the width of trench excavation as much as possible by adopting 
best construction practices; adopt vertical cutting approach with 
proper shoring and bracing; this is especially to be practiced in narrow 
roads and deeper sewers; if they deep trenches are excavate d with 
slopes, the roads may render completely unusable during the 
construction period 
(vii)Leave spaces for access between mounds of soil to maintain 
access to the houses/properties; access to any house or property shall 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
---PAGE BREAK---
143 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
not be blocked completely; alterna tive arrangements, at least to 
maintain pedestrian access at all times to be provided   
(viii)Provide pedestrian access in all the locations; provide 
wooden/metal planks with safety rails over the open trenches at each 
house to maintain the access. 
(ix)Inform the affected local population in advance about the work 
schedule, a week before, and a day before to start of work 
(x) Plan and execute the work in such a way that the period of 
disturbance/ loss of access is minimum. 
(xi)Keep the site free from all unnecessary obstructions; 
(xii)Notify affected public by public information notices, providing sign 
boards informing nature and duration of construction works and 
contact numbers for concerns/complaints. Provide information to the 
public through media – newspapers and local cable television (TV) 
services 
(xiii)At work site, public information/caution boards shall be provided 
including contact for public complaints 
Controlled Blasting : 
(i) The contractor shall submit a blasting plan in advance to PIU; and 
implement in accordance to the plan. 
(ii) Proper prior notice will be issued to the Residents before 
commencing UGSS activity works schedule. 
(iii) Proper information will be given to Police Officials. 
(iv) Workers (Flagman) shall be stationed on both ends of roads to warn 
peple before firing any blasts and not to permit the traffic. 
(iv) When blasting, ampe warning shall be given to all persons within 
the vicinity prior to blasting. Warning signs shall be erected a minimum 
24 hours prior to the blast time. Th e warning signs will state the time 
and date of each blast. 
(v) For  the diversion of traffic, permission from Coimbatore City 
Municipal Corporation and Traffic Police. 
Hauling (material, waste/debris and equipment) activities  
(i) Plan transportation routes so that heavy vehicles do not use narrow 
local roads, except in the immediate vicinity of delivery sites 
(ii) Schedule transport and hauling activities during non -peak 
hours;(peak hours 7 to 10 AM and 4 to 7 PM); 
---PAGE BREAK---
144 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(iii) Locate entry and exit points in areas where there is low potential 
for traffic congestion; 
(iv)Drive vehicles in a considerate manner 
(v) Notify affected public by public information notices, providing 
sign boards informing nature and duration of construction works and 
contact numbers for concerns/complaints. 
Controlled blasting 
Ground vibrations, 
Noise (air blast), 
Flying debris, Dust 
(i) Carryout controlled blasting in consultation with PIU so that blasting 
activities are conducted during periods of the day which will result in 
least disturbance especially near schools and other sensitive 
receptors. 
(ii)The contractor shall submit a blasting plan in advance to PIU for 
approval; and implement in accordance to the plan once approved. 
(iii) The controlled blasting at identified locations shall be permitted only 
after the requisite statutory permissions from regulatory authorities are 
obtained. The contractor shall comply with all terms and conditions 
stipulated in such permissions. The controlled blasting would b e 
monitored by following the necessary requirements to prevent safety 
risk to both public and nearby structures as provisioned in the 
prevailing Indian regulations and standards.  
(iv)Blasting shall be carried out through a Licensed Explosive 
Contractor only. 
(v)For controlled blasting, explosives including blasting caps, shall be 
transported to the blasting site only through exclusive vehicle in safe 
manner in accordance with the requirements of the blasting license. 
After blasting is over, the balance exp losives shall be returned to the 
licensed storage. 
(vi) Cost for implementation of mitigation measures and liability are the 
responsibility of contractor. 
(vii) Proper prior notice will be issued to the residents before 
commencing blasting activity works. Inform the residents likely to be 
affected by the works in the locality about the upcoming blasting works 
well in advance so that necessary arrangements are planned by the 
residents with reduced inconvenience. 
(viii) For sections where the controlle d blasting is proposed, the 
residents shall be provided with the schedule of blasting at least three 
days in advance and the residents are explained about the preventive, 
Contractor Contractor 
Cost 
---PAGE BREAK---
145 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
precautionary, mitigation and emergency response measures being 
taken to address their concerns. 
(ix)Prior information will be given to Police Officials. 
(x) Workers (Flagman) shall be stationed on both ends of roads to warn 
people before firing any blasts and not to permit the traffic. The section 
proposed for blasting shall be supervised  by properly trained staff to 
ensure no movement of pedestrians, motorized or nonmotorized 
vehicles, and residents takes place during blasting within the area of 
influence. For the diversion of traffic in the blasting area, the contractor 
shall prepare a t raffic management plan and obtain permission from 
CCMC and Traffic Police. 
(xi)When blasting, ample warning shall be given to all persons within 
the vicinity prior to blasting. Warning signs shall be erected a minimum 
of 24 hours prior to the blast time. The warning signs will state the time 
and date of each blast. 
(xii)Sites shall be provided with necessary shields all around. 
(xiii)Minimum explosive will be used for Controlled Blasting specifically 
within residential areas. 
(xiv)After a blast has been fired, the Blast Control Specialist shall make 
a careful inspection to determine that all charges have exploded 
before employees are allowed to return to the operation, and 
subsequently the movement of residents /pedestrians and vehicles is 
permitted. 
(xv)Ensure appropriate measures are taken to maintain maximum 
ambient noise levels within the limits as permitted by the prevailing 
Indian regulations and standards. The ambient noise levels would be 
monitored to ascertain the efficacy of acoustic measures thus 
implemented and compliance with associated regulatory permissions. 
(xvi)Ensure that adequate precautions are taken to avoid flying debris 
post blasting (such as covering the trench with sturdy metallic sheets 
with sand filled bags to absorb the blast waves); 
(xvii)For sections involving controlled blasting, ensure that dust curtains 
of adequate height are provided to the trenches to prevent emission 
of dust during drilling for charge holes and controlled blasting. 
(xix)Ensure that the excavated soil and debr is along the section 
identified for blasting is sprinkled with adequate water prior to blasting 
---PAGE BREAK---
146 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
to reduce dust emissions upon explosion of charge placed for breaking 
the hard rock. 
(xx)The project staff from the PIU, consultants and contractors would 
undertake a post-blasting survey of structures (including videography 
and/or photography) lying within the area of influence of blasting from 
the vibrations related impacts (preferably in the presence of the 
owners of the said structures) to assess and/or ascer tain regarding 
the damages, if any, caused to the structures because of blasting 
activities. 
(xxi)The contractor shall be responsible for any and all damages to 
property or injury to persons resulting from blasting or accidental or 
premature explosions tha t may occur in connection with use of 
explosives. The log of such events would be properly maintained. The 
contractor shall provide immediate support and relief measures 
commensurate with the damages. 
(xxii)Training related to controlled blasting activity will be included in the 
overall safeguards training programme meant for PIUs and 
Contractors. 
Socio-Economic 
Loss of access to 
houses and 
business 
Loss of income 
(i) Inform all businesses and residents about the nature and duration of 
any work well in advance so that they can make necessary 
preparations; 
(ii)Do not block any access; leave spaces for access between 
barricades/mounds of excavated soil and other stored materials and 
machinery, and providing footbridges so that people can crossover 
open trenches 
(iii) Barricade the construction area and regulate movement of people and 
vehicles in the vicinity, and maintain the surroundings safely with 
proper direction boards, lighting and security personnel – people 
should feel safe to move around  
(iv)Control dust generation 
(v) Immediately consolidate the backfilled soil and restore the road 
surface; this will also avoid any business loss due to dust and access 
inconvenience of construction work. 
(vi)Employee best construction p ractices, speed up construction work 
with better equipment, increase workforce, etc., in the areas with 
predominantly commercial, and with sensitive features like hospitals, 
and schools; 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
---PAGE BREAK---
147 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(vii)Consult businesses and institutions regarding operating hours an d 
factoring this in work schedules; and 
(viii)Provide sign boards for pedestrians to inform nature and duration of 
construction works and contact numbers for concerns/complaints. 
Socio-Economic 
- Employment 
Generation of 
temporary 
employment and 
increase in local 
revenue 
(i) Employ local labor force as far as possible  
(iii) Comply with labor laws Contractor 
Contract
or 
cost 
Occupational Health 
and Safety 
Occupational hazards 
which can arise 
during work 
(i)Follow all national, state and local labor laws (indicative list is in 
Appendix 2); 
(ii)Develop and implement site -specific occupational health and safety 
(OH and S) Plan informed by OHS risk assessment seeking to avoid, 
minimise and mitigate risk, which shall include measures such as: (a) 
safe and documented construction procedures to be followed for all 
site activities; (b) ensuring all workers are provided with and use 
personal protective equipment; (c) OH and S Training  for all site 
personnel, (d) excluding publi c from the work sites; and (e) 
documentation of work -related accidents;Follow International 
Standards such as the World Bank Group’s Environment, Health and 
Safety Guidelines10.For controlled blasting activity, identify the risks 
involved for the labourers  and public and include measures in the 
OHS plan. Provide necessary training and PPEs to the labourers to 
ensure safety during implementation. 
(iii) Ensure that qualified first-aid is provided at all times. Equipped first-
aid stations shall be easily accessible throughout the sites; 
(iv) Secure all installations from unauthorized intrusion and accident 
risks 
(v) Provide H and S orientation training to all new workers to ensure 
that they are apprised of the basic site rules of work at the site, 
personal prot ective protection, and preventing injuring to fellow 
workers; 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
 
 
10http://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/a99ab8804365b27aa60fb6d3e9bda932/EHS-Guidelines+101-Webinar.pdf?MOD=AJPERES 
---PAGE BREAK---
148 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(vi) Provide visitor orientation if visitors to the site can gain access to 
areas where hazardous conditions or substances may be present. 
Ensure also that visitor/s do not enter hazard areas unescorted; 
(vii) Ensure the visibility of workers through their use of high visibility 
vests and other PPEwhen working in or walking through heavy 
equipment operating areas; 
(viii) Ensure moving equipment is outfitted with audible back-up alarms; 
(ix) Mark and provide sign boards for hazardous areas such as 
energized electrical devices and lines, service rooms housing high 
voltage equipment, and areas for storage and disposal. Signage 
shall be in accordance with international standards and be well 
known to, and easily understood by workers, visitors, and the 
general public as appropriate; and 
(x) Disallow worker exposure to noise level greater than 85 dBA for 
duration of more than 8 hours per day without hearing protection. 
The use of hearing protection shall be enforced actively. 
(xi) Provide supplies of potable drinking water; 
(xii)  Provide clean eating areas where workers are not exposed to 
hazardous or noxious substances 
Community Health 
and Safety. 
Traffic accidents and 
vehicle collision with 
pedestrians during 
material and waste 
transportation 
(i) Consult PIU  before locating project offices, sheds, and construction 
plants;  
(ii) Select a camp site away from residential areas (at least 100m buffer 
shall be maintained) or locate the camp site within the existing 
facilities of City Corporation  
(iii)Avoid tree cutting for setting up camp facilities 
(iv) Provide a proper fencing/compound wall for camp sites 
(v) Camp site shall not be located near (100 m) water bodies, flood 
plains flood prone/low lying areas, or any ecologically, socially, 
archeologically sensitive areas 
(vi) Separate the workers living areas and material storage areas clearly 
with a fencing and separate entry and exit  
(vii) Ensure conditions o f livability at work camps are maintained at the 
highest standards possible at all times; living quarters and 
construction camps shall be provided with standard materials (as far 
as possible to use portable ready to fit -in reusable cabins with 
proper venti lation); thatched huts, and facilities constructed with 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
---PAGE BREAK---
149 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
materials like GI sheets, tarpaulins, etc., shall not be used as 
accommodation for workers  
(viii) Camp shall be provided with proper drainage, there shall not be any 
water accumulation 
(ix) Provide drinking water, water for other uses, and sanitation facilities 
for employees; ; drinking water should be regularly tested to confirm 
that drinking water standards are met 
(x) Prohibit employees from cutting of trees for firewood; contractor 
should provide cooking fuel (cooking gas); fire wood not allowed 
(xi) Train employees in the storage and handling of materials which can 
potentially cause soil contamination 
(xii) Wastewater from the camps shall be disposed properly either into 
sewer system; if sewer sys tem is not available, provide on -site 
sanitation with septic tank and soak pit arrangements(100 m away 
from surface water body or groundwater well)  
(xiii) Recover used oil and lubricants and reuse or remove from the site; 
(xiv) Manage solid waste according to the following preference hierarchy: 
reuse, recycling and disposal to designated areas; provide a 
compost pit for bio degradable waste, and non -biodegradable / 
recyclable waste shall be collected and sold in local market. 
(xv) For MSW and C&D waste dis posal, it will be carriedout properly in 
consultation and coordination with the ULB (CCMC) and locations 
indicated by them. 
(xvi) Remove all wreckage, rubbish, or temporary structures which are 
no longer required; and 
(xvii) At the completion of work, camp area shall be cleaned and restored 
to pre-project conditions, and submit report to PIU; PIU to review 
and approve camp clearance and closure of work site 
Work Camps and 
worksites 
Temporary air and 
noise pollution from 
machine operation, 
water pollution from 
storage and use of 
fuels, oils, solvents, 
and lubricants 
 
(i) As far as possible located the camp site within the work sites; if any 
camp to be established outside these, then select a camp site away 
from residential areas (at least 100 m buffer shall be maintained) 
(ii) Avoid tree cutting for setting up camp facilities 
(iii) Ensure that a proper compound wall is provided, and erect a 
wind/dust screen around 
(iv) Camp site shall not be located near (100 m) water bodies, flood 
plains flood prone/low lying areas, or any ecologically, socially, 
archeologically sensitive areas 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
---PAGE BREAK---
150 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
Unsanitary and poor 
living conditions for 
workers 
(v) Separate the workers living areas and material storage areas clearly 
with a fencing and separate entry and exit 
(vi) Provide proper temporary accommodation with proper materials, 
adequate lighting and ventilation, appropriate facilities for winters 
and summers; ensure conditions of livability at work camps are 
maintained at the highest standards possible at all times; 
(vii) Consult PIU before locating project offices, sheds, and construction 
plants; 
(viii) Minimize removal of vegetation and disallow cutting of trees 
(ix) Ensure conditions of livability at work camps are maintained at the 
highest standards possible at all times; living quarters and 
construction camps shall be provided with standard materials (as far 
as possible to use portable ready to fit -in reusable cabins with 
proper ventilation); thatched huts, and facilities constructe d with 
materials like GI sheets, tarpaulins, etc., shall not be allowed as 
accommodation for workers 
(x) Camp shall be provided with proper drainage, there shall not be any 
water accumulation 
(xi) Provide drinking water, water for other uses, and sanitation facilities 
for employees 
(xii) Prohibit employees from cutting of trees for firewood; contractor 
should be provide proper facilities including cooking fuel (oil or gas; 
fire wood not allowed) 
(xiii) Train employees in the storage and handling of materials which can 
potentially cause soil contamination 
(xiv) Recover used oil and lubricants and reuse or remove from the site 
(xv) Manage solid waste according to the following preference hierarchy: 
reuse, recycling and disposal to designated areas; provide a 
compost pit for biodegradable waste, and non -biodegradable / 
recyclable waste shall be collected and sold in local market 
(xvi) Remove all wreckage, rubbish, or temporary structures which are 
no longer required 
(xvii) At the completion of work, camp area shall be cleaned and restored 
to pre-project conditions, and submit report to PIU; PIU to review 
and approve camp clearance and closure of work site 
---PAGE BREAK---
151 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
COVID 19 control 
measures 
Health & Safety of the 
labourers and 
community 
(i) Construction sites operating during the COVID -19 pandemic need to 
ensure they are protecting their Workforce and minimising the risk 
of spread of infection. 
(ii) Awareness shall be created among Labourer’s through trainings, 
orientation of COVID related regulations. 
(iii) COVID 19 related hygiene facilities and guidance shall be made 
available for the labourers in the work site and accommodation. 
(iv) SOPs and guidelines issued by GOI and Go TN from time to time to 
prevent spread of Covid19 are adhered to i n the work sites and 
camp area during sub-project implementation. 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
Post-construction 
clean-up 
Damage due to 
debris, spoils, excess 
construction materials 
(i) Remove all spoils wreckage, rubbish, or temporary structures (such 
as buildings, shelters, and latrines) which are no longer required; 
and 
(ii) All excavated roads shall be reinstated to original condition. 
(iii) All disrupted utilities restored 
(iv) All affected structures rehabilitated/compensated 
(v) The area that previou sly housed the construction camp is to be 
checked for spills of substances such as oil, paint, etc. and these 
shall be cleaned up. 
(vi) All hardened surfaces within the construction camp area shall be 
ripped, all imported materials removed, and the area sh all be top 
soiled and regrassed using the guidelines set out in the re -
vegetation specification that forms part of this document. 
(vii) The contractor must arrange the cancellation of all temporary 
services. 
(viii) Request PIU to report in writing that worksites and camps have been 
vacated and restored to pre-project conditions before acceptance of 
work. 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
Operation Stage 
Operation of 
sewage lifting and 
pumping stations 
Odor nuisance 
(i) Strictly follow standard operating procedures / operational manual for 
operation and maintenance of lifting and pump stations 
(ii) Ensure that operating staff is properly trained, and have clear 
understanding of odor issues vis -à-vis its related with operational 
practices 
(iii) Ensure that pumping cycles are properly followed; and there is no 
buildup of sewage beyond design volume in the wells 
PIU  and  CCMC Operating 
costs  
---PAGE BREAK---
152 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(iv) Conduct H2S monitoring periodically  
(v) Concentration of hydrogen sulphide, which is a flammable and highly 
toxic gas, in or near sewage infrastructure (sewers, man holes, 
sewage sumps, septic tanks, STPs) etc, is highly dangerous to 
operation and maintenance personnel and may lead to inhalation 
deaths if works are conducted in such conditions. Appropriate and safe 
conditions shall be ensur ed prior to start of any works; H2S levels 
confirming to ILO11 threshold limits12 shall be ensured (1 ppm as TWA 
(time weighted average) usually 8 hours and 5 ppm as STEL (short -
term exposure limit) which is usually 15 minutes. 
Operation  and  
maintenance of 
sewerage system 
Blocks, overflows, 
system malfunction, 
occupational health  
and  safety 
(i) Establish regular maintenance program, including: 
• Regular cleaning of grit chambers and sewer lines to remove 
grease, grit, and other debris that may lead to sewer backups. 
Cleaning should be conducted more frequently for problem areas  
• Inspection of the condition of sanitary sewer structures and 
identifying areas that need repair or maintenance. Items to note 
may include cracked/deteriorating pipes; leaking joints or seals at 
manhole; frequent line blockages; lines that generally flow at or 
near capacity; and suspected infiltration or exfiltration; and  
• Monitoring of sewer flow to identify potential inflows and outflows 
• Conduct repairs on priority based on the nature and severity of 
the problem. Immediate clearing of blockage or repair is 
warranted where an overflow is currently occurring or for urgent 
problems that may cause an imminent overflow (e.g. pump 
station failures, sewer line ruptures, or sewer line blockages);  
(ii) Maintain records; review previous sewer maintenance records to 
help identify “hot spots” or areas with frequent maintenance 
problems and locations of potential system failure, and conduct 
preventative maintenance, rehabilitation, or replacement of lines as 
needed;  
(iii) When a spill, leak, and/or overflow occurs, keep sewage from 
entering the storm drain system by covering or blocking storm drain 
inlets or by containing and diverting the sewage away from open 
PIU  and  CCMC Operating 
costs  
 
 
11 International Labour Organization  
12 https://www.ilo.org/dyn/icsc/showcard.display?p_card_id=0165&p_version=1&p_lang=en 
---PAGE BREAK---
153 
 
Field Anticipated Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
channels and other storm drain facilities (using sandbags, inflatable 
dams, etc.). Remove the sewage using vacuum equipment or use 
other measures to divert it back to the sanitary sewer system. 
(iv) Prohibit/prevent disposal of wastewater/effluent from industrial units 
in the sewers; ensure regular checking to ensure no illegal entry of 
industrial wastewater into sewers    
(v) Develop an Emergency Response System for the sewerage system 
leaks, burst and overflows, etc.  
(vi) Provide necessary health  and  safety training to the staff in sewer 
cleaning  and  maintenance 
(vii) Provide all necessary personnel protection equipment  
(viii) Do not conduct manual cleaning of sewers; for personnel engaged 
sewer maintenance work, there is a risk due to oxygen deficiency 
and harmful gaseous emissions (hydrogen sulphide, methane,  etc.); 
provide for adequate equipment (including oxygen masks) for 
emergency use 
(ix) Concentration of hydrogen sulphide, which is a flammable and highly 
toxic gas, in or near sewage infrastructure (sewers, man holes, 
sewage sumps, septic tanks, STPs) etc, is highly dangerous to 
operation and maintenance personnel and may lead to inhalation 
deaths if works are conduc ted in such conditions. Appropriate and 
safe conditions shall be ensured prior to start of any works; H2S 
levels confirming to ILO13 threshold limits14 shall be ensured (1 ppm 
as TWA (time weighted average) usually 8 hours and 5 ppm as STEL 
(short-term exposure limit) which is usually 15 minutes. 
 
  
 
 
13 International Labour Organization 
14 https://www.ilo.org/dyn/icsc/showcard.display?p_card_id=0165&p_version=1&p_lang=en 
---PAGE BREAK---
154 
 
 
Table 38: Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures - Sewage Treatment Plant 
Field Anticipated 
Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
Design Stage 
Design of STP 
Deficient 
treatment due to 
substandard 
operation / 
system 
malfunction 
(i)  Design process to meet the CPCB disposal standards of inland water 
disposal1 
(i) Ensuring continuous uninterrupted power supply, including a back -up 
facility (such as generator) 
(ii) Providing operating manual with all standard operating procedures 
(SOPs) for operation and maintenance of the facility 
(iii) Necessary training to CCMC staff dealing with STP. 
(iv) Extended contractor period for O&M, proper transfer of facility to 
CCMC with adequate technical know -how on O&M and hands -on 
training to CCMC staff 
(v) Provision for online monitoring of crucial wastewater quality 
parameters at the inlet and outlet of the plant (BOD, pH, ammonia etc.,) 
DBOT 
Contractor and 
PIU 
Project cost – 
DBOT 
Contract. 
Access Road STP 
(Zone V) at 
Chokkampudur  
Narrow access 
road via 
crematorium/bur
ial ground; risk of 
damage to 
cultural and 
inconvenience to 
public using 
crematorium/bur
ial ground 
(i) Form an access road in the available vacant land , such as  next to 
compost plant with necessary clearance upto STP site prior to start of 
works;  
(ii) PIU will finalize the alignment in consultation with CCMC and road 
configuration to use it for both construction and operation purposes.   
DBOT 
Contractor and 
PIU 
Project cost – 
DBOT 
Contract. 
---PAGE BREAK---
155 
 
Field Anticipated 
Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
Discharge of 
treated wastewater 
into Periyakulam 
(Vadavalli & 
Veerakeralam 
areas) and into 
Noyyal River 
(Kavundampalaya
m & Thudiyalur 
areas) 
Baseline water 
quality and 
impact due to 
disposal 
(i) Conduct detailed water quality assessment of receiving water body 
(Periyakulam  and Noyyal River) STP discharge point including a 
control point on upstream 
(ii) Monitor water quality periodically during operation phase as per the 
Environmental Monitoring Plan 
DBOT 
Contractor and 
PIU 
Project cost – 
DBOT 
Contract 
 Odor nuisance 
(i) Site layout design of STP within allocated 4 acre land at both the STP 
sites at Chokkampudur and Kavundampalayam., maintaining adequate 
buffer to all boundaries. 
(ii) Providing a green buffer zone of 7 -10m wide all around the STP with 
trees and landscaping. This will act as a visual screen around the 
facility and will improve the aesthetic appearance. Treated wastewater 
will be used for landscaping. 
DBOT 
Contractor and 
PIU 
Project cost - 
DBOT 
Contract 
 Sludge disposal 
(i) Prepare sludge management plan to ensure safe collection, adequate 
treatment prior to reuse / disposal 
(ii) Conduct periodic testing of sludge to check its quality according to set 
standards for reuse as manure/soil conditioner 
(iii) Provide training on safe handling of sludge, along with proper apparatus 
and personnel protection equipment (PPEs) to workers 
DBOT 
Contractor and 
PIU 
Project cost - 
DBOT 
Contract 
---PAGE BREAK---
156 
 
Field Anticipated 
Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
 Noise 
(i) Procure good quality latest technology high pressure pumps that 
guarantee controlled noise at a level of around 80 dB(A) at a distance of 
1 m 
(ii) Use appropriate building materials and construction techniques for 
sewage pumping stations which can absorb sound rather than reflect 
noise 
(iii) Use acoustic enclosures – manufacturer specified, for all pumps, motors 
(iv) Procure only Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) approved 
generators with low emission and low noise fitted with acoustic 
enclosures 
(v) Provide sound mufflers for ventilators in the plant rooms; and sound 
proof doors 
(vi) Provide ear plugs to workers 
DBOT 
Contractor and 
PIU 
Project cost –
DBOT 
Contract 
STP operation Energy 
consumption 
(i)  Using low-noise and energy efficient pumping systems 
(ii) Efficient Pumping system operation 
(iii) Installation of Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs) 
DBOT 
Contractor and 
PIU 
Project cost - 
DBOT 
Contractor 
Construction of 
subproject 
components 
Tree cutting 
(i) Minimize removal of trees by adopting to site condition and with 
appropriate layout design/alignment 
(ii) Obtain prior permission for tree cutting, if necessity arises. 
(iii) Plant and maintain 10 tree s on the bank of ponds under smart city 
scheme of CCMC for each tree that is removed 
 
 
 
 
 
DBOT 
Contractor and 
PIU 
Project cost - 
DBOT 
Contractor 
---PAGE BREAK---
157 
 
Field Anticipated 
Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
Pre-Construction Stage 
Submission of 
updated 
Environmental 
Management Plan 
(EMP) / SEP; EMP 
implementation  
and  reporting 
Unsatisfactory 
compliance to 
EMP 
(i) Appoint Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Supervisor to ensure 
EMP implementation. 
(ii) Submission of updated EMP/ SEMP. 
(iii) Submission of plans along with SEMP 
 
• Construction Waste (Spoils) Management Plan 
• Traffic management plan 
• Occupational H ealth and Safety Plan, including COVID -19 
control and prevention plan 
• Cotrolled blasting plan (for hard rock removal/cutting) 
• Chance find protocol 
• Temporary labour camp management plan 
 
(ii) Timely submission monthly of monitoring reports including documentary 
evidence on EMP implementation such as photographs. 
 
 
 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
Construction work 
camps, stockpile 
areas, storage 
areas, and disposal 
areas. 
Conflicts with 
local community; 
disruption to 
traffic flow and 
sensitive 
receptors 
(i) Prioritize areas within or nearest possible vacant space in the project 
location; 
(ii) If it is deemed necessary to locate elsewhere, consider sites that will 
not promote instability and result in destruction of property, vegetation, 
irrigation, and drinking water supply systems; 
(iii) Do not consider residential areas; 
(iv) Take extreme care in selecting sites to avoid direct disposal to water 
body which will inconvenience the community. 
(v) For excess spoil disposal, ensure (a) site shall be selected preferably 
from barren, infertile lands. In case agricultural land needs to be 
selected, written consent from landowners (not lessees) will be 
obtained; (b) debris di sposal site shall be at least 200 m away from 
surface water bodies; (c) no residential areas shall be located within 50 
m downwind side of the site; and (d) site is minimum 250 m away from 
sensitive locations like settlements, ponds/lakes or other water bodies. 
Contractor to 
finalize 
locations in 
consultation 
and approval 
of PIU 
Project cost 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
158 
 
Field Anticipated 
Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
Sources of Materials 
Extraction of 
materials can 
disrupt natural 
land contours 
and vegetation 
resulting in 
accelerated 
erosion, 
disturbance in 
natural drainage 
patterns, ponding 
and water 
logging, and 
water pollution. 
(i) Obtain construction materials only from the existing government 
approved quarries with prior approval of PIU 
(ii) PIU to review, and ensure that proposed quarry sources have all 
necessary clearances/ permissions in place prior to approval 
(iii) Contractor to submit to PIU on a monthly basis documentation on 
material obtained from each sources (quarry/ borrow pit) 
(iv) No new borrow areas, quarries etc shall be developed., for the project 
Contractor  to 
prepare list of 
approved 
quarry sites 
and sources 
of materials 
with the 
approval of 
PIU 
Contractor 
cost 
 
Consents, permits, 
clearances, No 
Objection 
Certificates (NOCs), 
etc. 
Failure to obtain 
necessary 
consents, 
permits, NOCs, 
etc. can result to 
design revisions 
and/or stoppage 
of works 
(i) Obtain all necessary consents, permits, clearance, NOCs, etc. prior to 
award of civil works. 
(ii) Ensure that all necessary approvals for construction to be obtained by 
contractor are in place before start of construction 
(iii) Acknowledge in writing and provide report on compliance all obtained 
consents, permits, clearance, NOCs, etc. 
Contactor 
and PIU 
Cost of 
obtaining all 
consents, 
permits, 
clearance, 
NOCs, etc. 
prior to start 
of civil works 
responsibility 
of PIU. 
Chance finds 
Damage / 
disturbance to 
artifacts 
(i) Construction contractors to follow these measures in conducting 
any excavation work 
(ii) Create awareness among the workers, supervisors and engineers 
about the chance finds during excavation work  
(iii) Stop work immediately to allow further investigation if any finds are 
suspected; 
(iv) Inform State Archaeological Department if a find is suspected, and 
taking any action they require to ensure its removal or protection in situ. 
Contactor  
and PIU 
Contractor 
cost 
Construction Stage 
---PAGE BREAK---
159 
 
Field Anticipated 
Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
EMP 
Implementation 
Training 
Irreversible 
impact to the 
environment, 
workers, and 
community 
(i) Project manager and all key workers will be required to undergo training 
on EMP implementation including spoils/waste management, Standard 
operating procedures (SOP) for construction works; occupational health 
and safety (OH and S), core labor laws, applicable environmental laws, 
etc. 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
Air Quality 
Dust, 
emissions from 
construction 
vehicles, 
equipment, and 
machinery 
used for 
installation of 
pipelines 
resulting to 
dusts and 
increase in 
concentration 
of vehicle -
related 
pollutants such 
as carbon 
monoxide, 
sulfur oxides, 
particulate 
matter, nitrous 
oxides, and 
hydrocarbons. 
 (i) Provide a dust screen (6 m high) around the construction sites of 
STP’s;  provide 2 m high barricades for the sewer works 
(ii) Damp down the soil and any stockpiled material on site by water 
sprinkling;(3-4 times a day before the start of work, 1-2 times in between, 
and at the end of the day); when working in the roads there should 
permanently be one person responsible for directing when water 
sprinkling needs to take place to stop the dust moving; 
(iii) Reduce the need to sprinkle water by stabilizing  surface soils where 
loaders, support equipment and vehicles will operate by using water and 
maintain surface soils in a stabilized condition 
(iv) Apply water prior to levelling or any other earth moving activity to keep 
the soil moist throughout the process 
(v) Cover the soil stocked at the sites with tarpaulins, and surround by dust 
screens. 
(vi)Control access to work area, prevent unnecessary movement of 
vehicle, public trespassing into work areas; limiting soil disturbance will 
minimize dust generation   
(vii)Use tarpaulins to cover the loose material (soil, sand, aggregate etc.,) 
when transported by open trucks;  
(viii) Control dust generation while unloading the loose material 
(particularly aggregate, sand, soil) at the site by sprinkling water and 
unloading inside the barricaded area; minimize the drop height when 
moving the excavated soil. 
(ix)Clean wheels and undercarriage of haul trucks prior to leaving 
construction site 
(x) Ensure that all the construction equipment, machinery are fitted with 
pollution control devises, which are operating correctly, and have a valid 
pollution under control (PUC) certificate. 
(xi) No vehicles or plant to be left idling at site generators to be at placed 
maximum distance from properties 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
Surface water quality Mobilization of 
settled silt 
(i)All earthworks be  conducted during the dry season to prevent the 
problem of soil/silt run-off during rains Contractor Contractor 
cost 
---PAGE BREAK---
160 
 
Field Anticipated 
Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
materials, and 
chemical 
contamination 
from fuels and 
lubricants during 
construction can 
contaminate 
nearby surface 
water quality.  
 
Ponding of water 
in the 
pits/foundation 
excavations  
(ii) Avoid stockpiling of earth fill especially during the monsoon season 
unless covered by tarpaulins or plastic sheets; do not stock 
earth/material close to water bodies (at least 100 m) 
(iii) Prioritize re -use of excess spoils and materials in the construction 
works. If spoils will be disposed, only designated disposal areas shall be 
used; 
(iv) Install temporary silt traps, oil traps, or sedimentation basins along the 
drainage leading to the water bodies; 
(v) Place storage areas (with impermeable surface) for fuels and 
lubricants away from any drainage leading to water bodies; these should 
be at least 100 m away from water bodies and groundwater wells) 
(vi) Store fuel, construction chemicals etc., on an impervious floor, also 
avoid spillage by careful handling; provide spill collection sets for 
effective spill management  
(vii) Dispose any wastes generated by construction activities in 
designated sites;  
(viii) Conduct surface quality inspection according to the Environmental 
Management Plan (EMP). 
Water 
accumulation in 
trenches/pits 
(i) As far as possible control the entry of runoff from upper areas into the 
excavated pits, and work area by creation of temporary drains or bunds 
around the periphery of work area 
(ii) Pump out the water collected in the pits / excavations to a temporary 
sedimentation pond; dispose off only clarified water into drainage 
channels/streams after sedimentation in the temporary ponds 
(iii) Consider safety aspects related to pit collapse due to accumulation of 
water   
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
Noise Levels 
Increase in noise 
level due to earth-
moving and 
excavation 
equipment, and 
the transportation 
of equipment, 
materials, and 
people 
(i) Plan activities in consultation with PIU so that activities with the greatest 
potential to generate noise are conducted during periods of the day 
which will result in least disturbance; especia lly near schools and other 
sensitive receptors 
(ii)Minimize noise from construction equipment by using vehicle silencers, 
fitting jackhammers with noise-reducing mufflers, and use portable street 
barriers to minimize sound impact to surrounding sensitive receptor; and 
(iii) Maintain maximum sound levels not exceeding 80 decibels (dBA) 
when measured at a distance of 10 m or more from the vehicle/s. 
(iv)Identify any buildings at risk from vibration damage and avoiding any 
use of pneumatic drills or heavy vehicles in the vicinity; if any building at 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
---PAGE BREAK---
161 
 
Field Anticipated 
Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
risk, structural survey be completed prior to work, to provide baseline in 
case any issues from vibration, and if building is structurally unsound that 
measures taken to avoid any further damage 
(v)Horns should not be used unless it is necessary to warn other road 
users or animals of the vehicle’s approach; 
(vi)Consult local communities in advance of the work to identify and 
address key issues, and avoid working at sensitive times, such as night 
times, religious and cultural festivals. 
Traffic disruptions Traffic problems 
and conflicts  
Hauling (material, waste/debris and equipment) activities  
(i) Plan transportation routes so that heavy vehicles do not use narrow 
local roads, except in the immediate vicinity of delivery sites 
(ii) Schedule transport and hauling activities during non-peak hours;(peak 
hours 7 to 10 AM and 4 to 7 PM); 
(iii) Locate entry and exit points in areas where there is low potential 
for traffic congestion; 
(iv)Drive vehicles in a considerate manner 
(v) Notify affected public by public information notices, providing sign 
boards informing nature and duration of construction works and contact 
numbers for concerns/complaints. 
Contractor  Contractor 
cost 
Landscape and 
aesthetics – waste 
generation 
Impacts due to 
excess excavated 
earth, excess 
construction 
materials, and 
solid waste such 
as removed 
concrete, wood, 
packaging 
materials, empty 
containers, spoils, 
oils, lubricants, 
and other similar 
items. 
(i) Prepare and implement a Construction Waste Management Plan 
(refer Appendix 3) 
(ii) As far as possible utilize the debris and excess soil in construction 
purpose, for example for raising the ground level or construction of 
access roads etc.,  
(iii) Avoid stockpiling any excess spoils at the site for long time. Excess 
excavated soils should be disposed off to approved designated areas 
immediately 
(iv) If disposal is required, the site shall be selected preferably from 
barren, infertile lands; sites should located away from residential areas, 
forests, water bodies and any other sensitive land uses 
(v) Domestic solid wastes should be properly segregated in 
biodegradable and non -biodegradable for collection and disposal to 
designated solid waste disposal site; cr eate a compost pit (with 
impermeable bottom and sides)at workers camp sites for disposal of 
biodegradable waste; non -biodegradable / recyclable material shall be 
collected separately and sold in the local recycling material market 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
---PAGE BREAK---
162 
 
Field Anticipated 
Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(vi) Residual and hazardous wastes such as oils, fuels, and lubricants 
shall be disposed off via licensed (by TNPCB) third parties; 
(vii) Prohibit burning of construction and/or domestic waste; 
(viii) Ensure that wastes are not haphazardly thrown in and around the 
project site; provide proper collection bins, and create awareness to use 
the dust bins, recycle waste material where possible. 
(ix) Conduct site clearance and restoration to original condition after 
the completion of construction work; PIU to ensure that site is properly  
restored prior to issuing of construction completion certificate 
Controlled blasting 
Ground vibrations, 
Noise (air blast), 
Flying debris, Dust 
(i)  
i) Carryout controlled blasting in consultation with PIU so that blasting 
activities are conducted during periods of the day which will result in least 
disturbance especially near schools and other sensitive receptors. 
(ii)The contractor shall submit a blasting plan in advance to PIU for 
approval; and implement in accordance to the plan once approved. 
(iii) The controlled blasting at identified locations shall be permitted only 
after the requisite statutory permissions from regulatory authorities are 
obtained. The contractor shall comply with all terms and conditions 
stipulated in such permissions. The controlled blasting would be 
monitored by following the necessary requirements to prevent safety risk 
to both public and nearby structures as provisioned in the prevailing 
Indian regulations and standards.  
(iv)Blasting shall be carried out through a Licensed Explosive Contractor 
only. 
(v)For controlled blasting, explosives including blasting caps, shall be 
transported to the blasting site only through exclusive vehicle in safe 
manner in accordance with the requirements of the blasting license. After 
blasting is over, the balance explosives shall be returned to the licensed 
storage. 
(vi) Cost for implementation of mitigation measures and liability are the 
responsibility of contractor. 
(vii) Proper prior notice will be issued to the residents before commencing 
blasting activity works. Inform the residents likely to be affected by the 
works in the locality about the upcoming blasting works well in advance 
so that necessary arrangements are planned by the residents with 
reduced inconvenience. 
Contractor Contractor 
Cost 
---PAGE BREAK---
163 
 
Field Anticipated 
Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(viii) For sections where the controlled blasting is proposed, the residents 
shall be provided with the schedule of blasting at least three days in 
advance and the residents are explained about the preventive, 
precautionary, mitigation and emergency response measures being 
taken to address their concerns. 
(ix)Prior information will be given to Police Officials. 
(x) Workers (Flagman) shall be stationed on both ends of roads to warn 
people before firing any blasts and not to per mit the traffic. The section 
proposed for blasting shall be supervised by properly trained staff to 
ensure no movement of pedestrians, motorized or non -motorized 
vehicles, and residents takes place during blasting within the area of 
influence. For the diversion of traffic in the blasting area, the contractor 
shall prepare a traffic management plan and obtain permission from 
CCMC and Traffic Police. 
(xi)When blasting, ample warning shall be given to all persons within the 
vicinity prior to blasting. Warning signs shall be erected a minimum of 24 
hours prior to the blast time. The warning signs will state the time and 
date of each blast. 
(xii)Sites shall be provided with necessary shields all around. 
(xiii)Minimum explosive will be used for Controlled Blasting  specifically 
within residential areas. 
(xiv)After a blast has been fired, the Blast Control Specialist shall make a 
careful inspection to determine that all charges have exploded before 
employees are allowed to return to the operation, and subsequently th e 
movement of residents /pedestrians and vehicles is permitted. 
(xv)Ensure appropriate measures are taken to maintain maximum 
ambient noise levels within the limits as permitted by the prevailing Indian 
regulations and standards. The ambient noise levels would be monitored 
to ascertain the efficacy of acoustic measures thus implemented and 
compliance with associated regulatory permissions. 
(xvi)Ensure that adequate precautions are taken to avoid flying debris post 
blasting (such as covering the trench with sturdy metallic sheets with 
sand filled bags to absorb the blast waves); 
(xvii)For sections involving controlled blasting, ensure that dust curtains 
of adequate height are provided to the trenches to prevent emission of 
dust during drilling for charge holes and controlled blasting. 
---PAGE BREAK---
164 
 
Field Anticipated 
Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(xix)Ensure that the excavated soil and debris along the section identified 
for blasting is sprinkled with adequate water prior to blasting to reduce 
dust emissions upon explosion of charge placed for breaking the hard 
rock. 
(xx)The project staff from the PIU, consultants and contractors would 
undertake a post -blasting survey of structures (including videography 
and/or photography) lying within the area of influence of blasting from 
the vibrations related impacts (preferably in the presence of the owners 
of the said structures) to assess and/or ascertain regarding the 
damages, if any, caused to the structures because of blasting activities. 
(xxi)The contractor shall be responsible for any and all damages to 
property or injury to pe rsons resulting from blasting or accidental or 
premature explosions that may occur in connection with use of 
explosives. The log of such events would be properly maintained. The 
contractor shall provide immediate support and relief measures 
commensurate with the damages. 
(xxii)Training related to controlled blasting activity will be included in the 
overall safeguards training programme meant for PIUs and Contractors. 
Occupational Health 
and Safety 
Occupational 
hazards which can 
arise during work 
(i)Follow all national, state and local labor laws (indicative list is in Appendix 
2); 
(ii)Develop and implement site-specific occupational health and safety (OH 
and S) Plan informed by OHS risk assessment seeking to avoid, 
minimise and mitigate risk, which shall include measures such as: (a) 
safe and documented construction procedures to be followed for all site 
activities; (b) ensuring all workers are provided with and use personal 
protective equipment; (c) OH and S Training  for all  site personnel, (d) 
excluding public from the work sites; and (e) documentation of work -
related accidents; Follow International Standards such as the World 
Bank Group’s Environment, Health and Safety Guidelines 15.For 
controlled blasting activity, identify  the risks involved for the labourers 
and public and include measures in the OHS plan. Provide necessary 
training and PPEs to the labourers to ensure safety during 
implementation. 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
 
 
15http://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/a99ab8804365b27aa60fb6d3e9bda932/EHS-Guidelines+101-Webinar.pdf?MOD=AJPERES 
---PAGE BREAK---
165 
 
Field Anticipated 
Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(iii) Ensure that qualified first -aid is provided at all times. Equipped fir st-
aid stations shall be easily accessible throughout the sites; 
(iv) Secure all installations from unauthorized intrusion and accident risks 
(v) Provide H and S orientation training to all new workers to ensure that 
they are apprised of the basic site rul es of work at the site, personal 
protective protection, and preventing injuring to fellow workers; 
(vi) Provide visitor orientation if visitors to the site can gain access to areas 
where hazardous conditions or substances may be present. Ensure 
also that visitor/s do not enter hazard areas unescorted; 
(vii) Ensure the visibility of workers through their use of high visibility vests 
and other PPE when working in or walking through heavy equipment 
operating areas; 
(viii) Ensure moving equipment is outfitted with audible back-up alarms; 
(ix) Mark and provide sign boards for hazardous areas such as energized 
electrical devices and lines, service rooms housing high voltage 
equipment, and areas for storage and disposal. Signage shall be in 
accordance with in ternational standards and be well known to, and 
easily understood by workers, visitors, and the general public as 
appropriate; and 
(x) Disallow worker exposure to noise level greater than 85 dBA for 
duration of more than 8 hours per day without hearing protection. The 
use of hearing protection shall be enforced actively. 
(xi) Provide supplies of potable drinking water; 
(xii)  Provide clean eating areas where workers are not exposed to 
hazardous or noxious substances 
Community Health 
and Safety. 
Traffic accidents 
and vehicle 
collision with 
pedestrians during 
material and waste 
transportation 
(i) Consult PIU  before locating project offices, sheds, and construction 
plants;  
(ii) Select a camp site away from residential areas (at least 100m buffer 
shall be maintained) or locate the camp site within the existing facilities 
of City Corporation  
(iii)Avoid tree cutting for setting up camp facilities 
(iv) Provide a proper fencing/compound wall for camp sites 
(v) Camp site shall not be located near (100 m) water bodies, flood plains 
flood prone/low lying areas, or any ecologically, socially, 
archeologically sensitive areas 
(vi) Separate the workers living areas and material storage areas clearly 
with a fencing and separate entry and exit  
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
---PAGE BREAK---
166 
 
Field Anticipated 
Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(vii) Ensure conditions of livability at work camps are maintained at the 
highest standards possible at all times; living quarters and construction 
camps shall be provided with standard materials (as far as possible to 
use portable ready to fit -in reusable cabins with proper ventilation); 
thatched huts, and facilities constructed with materials like GI sheets, 
tarpaulins, etc., shall not be used as accommodation for workers  
(viii) Camp shall be provided with proper drainage, there shall not be any 
water accumulation 
(ix) Provide drinking water, water for other uses, and sanitation facilities for 
employees; ; drinking water should be regularly tested to confirm that 
drinking water standards are met 
(x) Prohibit employees from cutting of trees for  firewood; contractor 
should provide cooking fuel (cooking gas); fire wood not allowed 
(xi) Train employees in the storage and handling of materials which can 
potentially cause soil contamination 
(xii) Wastewater from the camps shall be disposed properly e ither into 
sewer system; if sewer system is not available, provide on -site 
sanitation with septic tank and soak pit arrangements(100 m away 
from surface water body or groundwater well)  
(xiii) Recover used oil and lubricants and reuse or remove from the site; 
(xiv) Manage solid waste according to the following preference hierarchy: 
reuse, recycling and disposal to designated areas; provide a compost 
pit for bio degradable waste, and non -biodegradable / recyclable 
waste shall be collected and sold in local market. 
(xv) For MSW and C&D waste disposal, it will be carriedout properly in 
consultation and coordination with the ULB (CCMC) and locations 
indicated by them. 
(xvi) Remove all wreckage, rubbish, or temporary structures which are no 
longer required; and 
(xvii) At the completion of work, camp area shall be cleaned and restored 
to pre-project conditions, and submit report to PIU; PIU to review and 
approve camp clearance and closure of work site 
Work Camps and 
worksites 
Temporary air and 
noise pollution 
from machine 
operation, water 
pollution from 
(i) As far as possible located the camp site within the work sites; i f any 
camp to be established outside these, then select a camp site away 
from residential areas (at least 100 m buffer shall be maintained) 
(ii) Avoid tree cutting for setting up camp facilities 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
---PAGE BREAK---
167 
 
Field Anticipated 
Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
storage and use of 
fuels, oils, 
solvents, and 
lubricants 
 
Unsanitary and 
poor living 
conditions for 
workers 
(iii) Ensure that a proper compound wall is provided, and erect a wind/dust 
screen around 
(iv) Camp site shall not be located near (100 m) water bodies, flood plains 
flood prone/low lying areas, or any ecologically, socially, 
archeologically sensitive areas 
(v) Separate the workers living areas and material storage areas clearly 
with a fencing and separate entry and exit 
(vi) Provide proper temporary accommodation with proper materials, 
adequate lighting and ventilation, appropriate facilities for winters and 
summers; ensure conditions of livability at work camps are maintained 
at the highest standards possible at all times; 
(vii) Consult PIU before locating project offices, sheds, and construction 
plants; 
(viii) Minimize removal of vegetation and disallow cutting of trees 
(ix) Ensure conditions of livability at work camps are maintained at the 
highest standards possible at all times; living quarters and construction 
camps shall be provided with standard materials (as far as possible to 
use portable ready to fit -in reusable cabins with proper ventila tion); 
thatched huts, and facilities constructed with materials like GI sheets, 
tarpaulins, etc., shall not be allowed as accommodation for workers 
(x) Camp shall be provided with proper drainage, there shall not be any 
water accumulation 
(xi) Provide drinking water, water for other uses, and sanitation facilities 
for employees 
(xii) Prohibit employees from cutting of trees for firewood; contractor 
should be provide proper facilities including cooking fuel (oil or gas; 
fire wood not allowed) 
(xiii) Train employees in the storage and handling of materials which can 
potentially cause soil contamination 
(xiv) Recover used oil and lubricants and reuse or remove from the site 
(xv) Manage solid waste according to the following preference hierarchy: 
reuse, recycling and disposal to designated areas; provide a compost 
pit for biodegradable waste, and non-biodegradable / recyclable waste 
shall be collected and sold in local market 
(xvi) Remove all wreckage, rubbish, or temporary structures which are no 
longer required 
---PAGE BREAK---
168 
 
Field Anticipated 
Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(xvii) At the completion of work, camp area shall be cleaned and restored 
to pre-project conditions, and submit report to PIU; PIU to review and 
approve camp clearance and closure of work site 
COVID 19 control 
measures 
Health & Safety of 
the labourers and 
community 
(i) Construction sites operating during the COVID -19 pandemic need to 
ensure they are protecting their Workforce and minimising the risk of 
spread of infection. 
(ii) Awareness shall be created among Labourer’s  through trainings, 
orientation of COVID related regulations. 
(iii) COVID 19 related hygiene facilities and guidance shall be made 
available for the labourers in the work site and accommodation. 
(iv) SOPs and guidelines issued by GOI and Go TN from time to  time to 
prevent spread of Covid19 are adhered to in the work sites and camp 
area during sub-project implementation. 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
Post-construction 
clean-up 
Damage due to 
debris, spoils, 
excess 
construction 
materials 
(i) Remove all spoils wreckage, rubbish, or temporary structures (such as 
buildings, shelters, and latrines) which are no longer required; and 
(ii) All excavated roads shall be reinstated to original condition. 
(iii) All disrupted utilities restored 
(iv) All affected structures rehabilitated/compensated 
(v) The area that previously housed the construction camp is to be checked 
for spills of substances such as oil, paint, etc. and these shall be 
cleaned up. 
(vi) All hardened surfaces within the construction camp area shall be ripped, 
all imported materials removed, and the area shall be top soiled and 
regrassed using the guidelines set out in the re -vegetation 
specification that forms part of this document. 
(vii) The contractor must arrange the cancellation of all temporary services. 
(viii) Request PIU to report in writing that worksites and camps have been 
vacated and restored to pre -project conditions before acceptance of 
work. 
Contractor Contractor 
cost 
Operation Stage 
STP operation – 
malfunction and 
effect on efficiency 
Public health, 
safety  and  
environmental 
impacts 
(i) Ensure proper knowledge transfer, hands-on training to municipal 
staff engaged in STP operation has been provided by contractor prior to 
handover of facility  
(ii) Ensure continuous uninterrupted power supply  
(iii) Operate  and  maintain the facility foll owing standard operating 
procedures of operational manual 
DBOT 
Contractor and  
PIU / CCMC 
Operating 
costs 
---PAGE BREAK---
169 
 
Field Anticipated 
Impact Mitigation Measures Responsibility 
of Mitigation 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
(iv) Undertake preventive and periodic maintenance activities as 
required 
(v) Maintain the mechanical / electrical parts as per the maintenance 
plan to avoid any hazards 
(vi) Conduct periodic training to workers 
(vii) Ensure that all safety apparatus at STP including personal 
protection equipment are in good condition all times; and are at easily 
accessible and identifiable place; periodically check the equipment, and 
conduct mock drills to deal with emergency situations 
(viii) Implement sludge management plan at the STP. sludge 
management to collect, treat and dispose the accumulated sludge safely; 
sludge will be tested periodically for heavy metal concentration.  
(ix) No wastewater from industrial p remises (including domestic 
wastewater) shall be allowed to dispose into municipal sewers 
(x) Monitor regularly and ensure that there is no illegal discharge 
through manholes or inspection chambers; conduct public awareness 
programs; in coordination with TNPCB  
(vii) Conduct regular wastewater quality monitoring (at inlet and at 
outlet of STP) to ensure that the treated effluent quality complies with the 
standards 
(viii) Conduct periodic testing of dried sludge/compost to check 
presence of heavy metals and confirming stipulated concentrations to use 
as compost 
(ix) Concentration of hydrogen sulphide, which is a flammable and 
highly toxic gas, in or near sewage infrastructure (sewers, man holes, 
sewage sumps, septic tanks, STPs) etc, is highly dangerous to operation 
and maintenance personnel and may lead to inhalation deaths if works 
are conducted in such conditions. Appropriate and safe conditions shall 
be ensured prior to start of any works; H2S levels confirming to ILO 16 
threshold limits 17 shall be ensured (1 ppm as TWA (time weighted 
average) usually 8 hours and 5 ppm as STEL (short-term exposure limit) 
which is usually 15 minutes. 
  
 
 
16 International Labour Organization  
17 https://www.ilo.org/dyn/icsc/showcard.display?p_card_id=0165&p_version=1&p_lang=en 
---PAGE BREAK---
170 
 
Table 39: Environmental Monitoring Plan – Sewer System 
Monitoring field Monitoring 
location 
Monitoring parameters Frequency Responsibility Cost  and  Source of 
Funds 
Pre –construction and Construction Stage 
Construction 
disturbances, 
nuisances, public  
and  worker 
safety, 
All work sites 
Implementation of 
construction stage EMP 
including dust control, noise 
control, traffic management, 
and safety measures during 
controlled blasting. Site 
inspection checklist to review 
implementation is appended 
at  Appendix 7 
Weekly during 
construction 
Supervising 
staff and 
safeguards 
specialists of 
CMSC 
Staff  and  consultant 
costs are part of 
incremental 
administration costs 
Ambient air quality 
4 locations 
(4 monitoring 
locations 50 m 
downwind 
direction near 
sewer  and  
pumping station 
work sites in the 
city); 
 
• PM10, PM 2.5  NO2, SO 2, 
CO 
Once before 
start of 
construction 
Quarterly 
yearly (4 -
times) during 
construction (3 
year 
construction 
period 
Construction 
Contractor 
Cost for 
implementation of 
monitoring measures 
responsibility of 
contractor 
(52 samples x 5000 per 
sample = 260,000) 
 
Ambient noise 
4 locations 
(4 monitoring 
locations near 
sewer  and  
pumping station 
work sites in the 
city); 
 
• Day time and night time 
noise levels 
Once before 
start of 
construction 
Quarterly 
yearly (4 -
times) during 
construction 
(3year 
construction 
period) 
Construction 
Contractor 
Cost for 
implementation of 
monitoring measures 
responsibility of 
contractor 
(52 samples x 1500 per 
sample = 78,000) 
Operation Stage 
Odor monitoring at 
pumping stations 
3 points 
(downwind 
Hydrogen sulphide (H2S) 
 
Periodical 
(throughout the CCMC Handheld H2S meters to 
be procured as part of 
---PAGE BREAK---
171 
 
Monitoring field Monitoring 
location 
Monitoring parameters Frequency Responsibility Cost  and  Source of 
Funds 
direction) at all 
pumping stations: 
near inlet/suction 
well; outside the 
pumping station 
and at nearest 
house 
 
 
operation 
phase) 
the project and operated 
by operating staff 
Odor monitoring at 
lifting stations 
2 points 
(downwind 
direction) at all 
lifting stations: 
near suction well 
and at nearest 
house 
Hydrogen sulphide (H 2S) in 
ambient air 
Periodical 
(throughout the 
operation 
phase) 
CCMC 
Handheld H2S meters to 
be procured as part of 
the project and operated 
by operating staff 
 
  
---PAGE BREAK---
172 
 
Table 40: Environmental Monitoring Plan – Sewage Treatment Plant 
Monitoring field Monitoring 
location 
Monitoring parameters Frequency Responsibility Cost  and  Source of 
Funds 
Pre –construction and Construction Stage 
Baseline water 
quality of receiving 
water body 
(Selvachinthamani 
Tank and 
downstream 
Periyakulam Tank, 
Noyyal River) 
6 points (2 
samples from 
each tank& 
from Noyyal 
River) 
pH, TDS, TSS, DO, BOD, 
COD, E -coli, Total coliform, 
Nitrate, Total Phosphates, Oil 
& grease, Total hardness, 
Sulphate, Fluoride, Chloride, 
Ammonia, Aluminum, 
Manganese, Iron, Zinc, 
Nickel, Magne sium, Phenolic 
compounds, Chromium, 
Arsenic, Mercury, Cadmium, 
Lead, Pesticides 
Twice during 
detailed design 
phase 
(Pre monsoon  
and post 
monsoon during 
design phase) 
DBOT 
Contractor 
Cost for 
implementation of 
monitoring measures 
responsibility of DB 
contractor 
(6 samples x 8000 per 
sample = 48,000) 
Baseline sediment 
quality in receiving 
water bodies 
(Periyakulam 
Tank& Noyyal 
River) 
2 points 
(Periyakulam 
Tank& Noyyal 
River) 
EC, pH, calcium, magnesium, 
% of total organic matter, 
Total organic carbon, N, P, K, 
Aluminum, fecal coliform, As, 
Cu, Cd, Cr, Pb, Fe, Mn, Hg, 
Zn, Ni. 
Twice during 
detailed design 
phase (Pre 
monsoon  and 
post monsoon 
during design 
phase) 
DBOT 
Contractor 
Cost for 
implementation of 
monitoring measures 
responsibility of DBOT 
contractor 
(4 samples x 10000 
per sample = 40,000) 
Construction 
disturbances, 
nuisances, public  
and  worker 
safety, 
All work sites 
Implementation of 
construction stage EMP 
including dust control, noise 
control, traffic management, 
and safety measures during 
controlled blasting. Site 
inspection checklist to review 
implementation is appended 
at  Appendix 7 
Weekly during 
construction 
Supervising 
staff and 
safeguards 
specialists of 
CMSC 
Staff  and  consultant 
costs are part of 
incremental 
administration costs 
Ambient air quality 
1 locations at 
STP Site 
  
• PM10, PM2.5  NO2, SO2, CO 
Once before 
start of 
construction 
Construction 
Contractor 
Cost for 
implementation of 
monitoring measures 
---PAGE BREAK---
173 
 
Monitoring field Monitoring 
location 
Monitoring parameters Frequency Responsibility Cost  and  Source of 
Funds 
 Quarterly yearly 
(4-times) during 
construction (3 
year 
construction 
period 
responsibility of 
contractor 
(13 samples x 5000 
per sample = 65,000) 
 
Ambient noise 
1 locations at 
STP Site 
  
 
• Day time and night time 
noise levels 
Once before 
start of 
construction 
Quarterly yearly 
(4-times) during 
construction 
(3year 
construction 
period) 
 
Construction 
Contractor 
Cost for 
implementation of 
monitoring measures 
responsibility of 
contractor 
(13 samples x 1500 
per sample = 19,500) 
Surface water 
quality 
2 locations 
(Periya 
Kulam and 
Noyyal 
River at 
proposed 
STP 
discharge 
point) 
• pH, Oil  and  grease, Cl, F, 
NO3, TC, FC, Hardness, 
Turbidity BOD, COD, DO, 
Total Alkalnity 
Once before 
start of 
construction 
Half yearly 
during 
construction (3 
year 
construction 
period) 
 
Construction 
Contractor 
Cost for 
implementation of 
monitoring measures 
responsibility of 
contractor 
(12 samples x 4000 
per sample = 48,000) 
Operation Stage 
Monitoring of 
treated wastewater 
quality from STP 
Inlet and 
outlet of STP 
Parameters as specified by 
TNPCB in the consent/ 
disposal standards notified for 
STPs. 
Monthly Once CCMC CCMC Operating Cost 
Odor monitoring at 
STP 
2 points 
(downwind 
direction) with 
Hydrogen Sulphide (H2S) 
 
 
Half yearly 
(yearly twice) 
and 
CCMC O&M Costs 
---PAGE BREAK---
174 
 
Monitoring field Monitoring 
location 
Monitoring parameters Frequency Responsibility Cost  and  Source of 
Funds 
at STP 
boundary and 
at boundary 
near 
Residential 
area 
as and when 
based on public 
complaints 
(throughout the 
operation phase) 
Ambient noise 
2 locations 
(downwind 
direction) with 
at STP 
boundary and 
at boundary 
with near 
Residential 
area 
Day time and night time noise 
levels 
Monthly once 
during operation VCMC O&M Costs 
River water quality 
at disposal point 
Noyyal River 
disposal point, 
(downstream 
and upstream) 
pH, Cl, F, NO 3, TC, FC, 
Hardness, Turbidity BOD, COD, 
DO, Total Alkalinity, 
 
 
 
heavy metals  and  pesticides 
Baseline 
monitoring prior 
to start of 
commissioning 
Monthly once 
during operation 
Yearly twice 
during operation 
(pre  and  post 
monsoon) 
CCMC 
O and  M costs (water 
quality will be tested at 
the internal laboratory 
part of STP) 
Sludge quality and 
suitability as manure STP 
Analysis for concentration of 
heavy metals and confirm that 
value are within the limits for 
use as compost 
Start of 
operation and  
Yearly once  
CCMC O and M costs (testing 
to be done at an 
accredited external 
laboratory) 
 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
175 
 
B. ImplementationArrangements 
202. The Municipal and Water Supply Department (MAWS) acting through TNUIFSL will be the 
executingagency. A program steering committee, headed by Principal Secretary, MAWS, 
GOTN,will provide overall guidance and strategic directions to the program.A program 
management unit (PMU) for TNUFIP, headed by the Managing Director, TNUIFSL acting as 
Program Director has been established within TNUIFSL for overall manag ement, planning, 
implementing, monitoring, reporting, and coordinating TNUFIP.The CMA will act as the Deputy 
Program Director in the PMU. The project ULBs, represented by respective Municipal 
Commissioners, will be the implementing agencies for works in ci ties/towns and will establish 
program implementing units (PIUs) headed by a municipal engineer as full-time Project Manager. 
PIUs will comprise of dedicated staff responsible for overseeing implementation of projects on a 
day-to-day basis. The PIUs will be  supported by a construction management and supervision 
consultant (CMSC) recruited by TNUIFSL.For the institutional capacity, public awareness, and 
urban governance component, CMA acting through its Commissioner, will establish a PIU and 
appoint a governance improvement and awareness consultant (GIAC) responsible for supporting 
these activities.  
 
203. The implementing agency for this subproject is Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation 
(CCMC). A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established in TWAD Board headed by 
full-time a Project Manager (a senior official of TWAD Board) and comprising dedicated full-time 
staff from TWAD Board . PIUwill be responsible for planning, implementation, monitoring and 
supervision, and coordination of all activities of subproject.  
 
204. Safeguards Compliance Responsibilities. Environmental and Social Safeguards (ESS) 
managers in the PMU, TNUIFSL will have overallresponsibility of safeguard compliance with ADB 
SPS 2009. ESS Managers report to Vice President  in the Projects Wing. At PIU level, a 
Safeguards Officers will be appointed, who will be an Assistant Engineer rank officer and will 
coordinate safeguard tasks at PIU. An Environmental Expert will also be appointed in PIU, 
specifically to implement environmental safeguards.The Contractor should appoint Environmental 
Health and Safety (EHS) Supervisor to ensure EMP implementation; submission of updated EMP/ 
SEP; timely submission monthly of monitoring reports including documentary evidence on EMP 
implementation such as photographs. 
 
205. PMU Safeguard Responsibilities.  Key tasks and responsibilities of the PMU  for this 
subprojectinclude the following: 
 
206. DPR finalization and Bidding stage: 
(i) Ensure that all design related measures of the EMP are included designs; 
(ii) Ensure that EMP is included in bidding documents and civil works contracts 
including requirement for EHS supervisor with the contractor; 
(iii) Ensure that the bid/contract documents include specific provisions requiring 
contractors to comply with all applicable labor laws and core labor standards; 
(iv) Ensure that staff required for implementation of EMP (EHS officer) is included in 
the bid requirements; 
(v) Ensure that EMP cost is included in the project cost; 
(vi) Prior to invitation of bids and prior to award of contract ensure that all 
clearance/permissions as required for implementation of subproject are in place, 
to the extent possible. 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
176 
 
207. Construction stage: 
(i) Prior to start of construction: 
a.  Ensure that all necessary clearances/permissions/licences, including  that 
of contractor’s are in place prior to start of construction. 
b. Provide oversight on environmental management aspects of subprojects 
and ensure EMPs are implemented by PIUs and contractors. 
(ii) Oversee and provide guidance to the PIU to properly carry ou t the environmental 
monitoring as per the EMP. 
(iii) Oversee grievance redress mechanism to address any grievances brought about 
in a timely manner; ensure that records are properly maintained. 
(iv) Consolidate quarterlyenvironmental monitoring reports from PIU and submit semi-
annual environmentalmonitoring reports to ADB. 
(v) Oversee site closures to ensure that all work/facility sites are restored properly 
prior to issuing work completion certificate to the contractor. 
 
208. Operation stage. Ensure that all clearances as required for operation of project are in 
place prior to operation, such as consent to operate (CTO) for STP from TNPCB. 
 
209. PIU Safeguard Responsibilities. Key tasks and responsibilities of the PIU (established 
by TWAD Board)  for this subproject include the following: 
 
210. DPR finalization and Bidding stage: 
(i) Include design related measures of the EMP in the project design and DPR; 
(ii) Include EMP in the bidding documents and civil works contracts, including 
requirement of staff (EHS supervisor) with contractor for EMP implementation; 
(iii) Provide necessary budget in the project as IEE for EMP Implementation; 
(iv) Ensure that the bid/contract documents include specific provisions requiring 
contractors to comply with all applicable labor laws and  core labor standards 
including:  
a. Labour welfare measures and provision of amenities 
b. prohibition of child labor as defined in national legislation for construction 
and maintenance activities;  
c. equal pay for equal work of equal value regardless of gender, e thnicity, or 
caste;  
d. elimination of forced labor;  
e. the requirement to disseminate information on sexually transmitted 
diseases, including HIV/AIDS, to employees and local communities 
surrounding the project sites. 
(v) In the pre-bid meeting, provide insight into EMP measures, and overall compliance 
requirements to the bidders; 
(vi) Obtain all clearance/permissions as required for implementation of subproject, 
including consent to establish (CTE) from TNPCB for STP prior to invitation of bids 
and/or prior to award of contract / prior to construction as appropriate. 
 
211. Construction stage: 
(i) Identify regulatory clearance requirements and obtain all necessary clearances 
prior to start of construction; ensure construction work by contractor is conducted 
in compliance with all government rules and regulations including pollution control, 
labour welfare and safety etc.; 
(ii) Prior to start of construction organize an induction course for the training of 
contractors, preparing them on EMP implementation, environment al monitoring, 
---PAGE BREAK---
177 
 
and on taking immediate action to remedy unexpected adverse impacts or 
ineffective mitigation measures found during the course of implementation; 
(iii) Ensure contractor compliance with staff resources as per the IEE/EMP/Bid; 
(iv) Guide contractor on u pdating EMP / preparing Site Environmental 
ManagementPlan at the start of the project; 
(v) Update IEE  and  EMP; ensure that IEE reflects the final design being implemented 
by contractor; 
(vi) Conduct public consultation and information disclosure as necessary  
(vii) Take necessary action for obtaining rights of way; 
(viii) Supervise day -to-day EMP implementation on site by contractor, including the 
environmental monitoring plan;  
(ix) Superviseambient environmental monitoring by contractors; 
(x) Take corrective actions when necessary to ensure no environmental impacts 
(xi) Submit quarterlyenvironmental monitoring reports to PMU; 
(xii) Conduct continuous public consultation and awareness; 
(xiii) Address any grievances brought about through the grievance redress mechanism 
in a timely manner as per the EMP; 
(xiv) Monitor Contractor’s compliance with the measures set forth in the EMP and any 
corrective or preventative actions set forth in a safeguards monitoring report that 
the PMU will prepare from time to time;  
(xv) Implement corrective or preventative actions in c ase of non -compliance or 
new/unanticipated impacts;  
(xvi) Inform PMU promptly in case if any significant impacts surfaces, which were not 
identified in the IEE and develop necessary corrective actions as necessary and 
ensure implementation by the contractors; include all such impacts and suggested 
actions in the Quarterly Environmental Monitoring Reports; 
(xvii) Implementation grievance redress system, and undertake appropriate actions to 
redress the complaints; ensure that complaints/grievances are addressed in a 
timely manner and resolutions are properly documented; 
(xviii) Review and approve monthly progress reports submitted by Contractor on EMP 
compliance; 
(xix) Prepare quarterly environmental monitoring reports and submit to PMU /TNUIFSL 
(xx) Provide any assistance in environmental safeguard related tasks as required by  
PMU to ensure compliance and reporting to ADB. 
 
212. Operation stage 
(i) Obtain all clearances as required for operation of project prior to operation, such 
as consent to operate (CTO) for STP from TNPCB. 
(ii) Conduct environmental management and monitoring activities as per the EMP. 
 
213. Contractor’sResponsibilities: 
 
a. Bidding stage 
(i) Understand the EMP requirements and allocate necessary resources (budget, 
staff, etc.,); 
(ii) Understand the regulatory compliance requirements rela ted to labour welfare, 
safety, environment etc. 
 
214. Construction stage: 
(i) Mobilize EHS Supervisor prior to start of work; 
(ii) Prepare SEMP  and submit to PIU; 
---PAGE BREAK---
178 
 
(iii) Ensure that all regulatory clearances (both project related and contractor related) 
are in place prior start of the construction work; 
(iv) Confirm with PIU availability of Rights of Way at all project sites prior to start of 
work. 
(v) Prepare and submit:  
a. Construction waste management (CWM) and also Demoliton waste 
management plan (sample is in Appendix 3) 
b. Traffic management (TM) plan (sample is Appendix 6). 
c. OHS Plan, pollution control plan, dust emergency response plan 
(vi) Implement the mitigation measures as per the EMP including CWM  and  TM 
Plans; 
(vii) Follow the EMP measures/guidelines for establishment of temporary construction 
camps, construction waste disposal sites, and material borrow areas, etc., 
(viii) Implement EMP and ensure compliance with all the mitigation and enhancement 
measures; 
(ix) Conduct environmental monitoring (air, noise, water etc.,) as per the EMP 
(x) Undertake immediate action as suggested by PIU to remedy unexpected adverse 
impacts or ineffective mitigation measures found during the course of 
implementation; 
(xi) Submit monthly progress reports on EMP implementation to PIU; 
(xii) Act promptly on public complaints and grievances related to construction work and 
redress in a timely manner in coordination with PIU and CMSC; 
(xiii) Comply with applicable government rules and regulations. 
 
C. Training Needs 
215. The following Table 41 presents the outline of capacity building program to ensure EMP 
implementation. These capacity building and trainings will be conducted at the offices of PMU 
and PIU by the environmental safeguards specialist of PMU/PIU and their consultants, which are 
part of project implementation set -up, and th erefore no separate or additional costs are 
envisaged.Adequate costs are already considered in project’s capacity building program. The 
detailed program and specific modules will be customized for the available skill set after assessing 
the capabilities of the target participants and the requirements of the project by the PMU. 
Table 41: Outline Capacity Building Program on EMP Implementation 
Description Target Participants 
and  Venue 
Estimate 
(`) 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
1. Introduction and Sensitization to 
Environmental Issues (1 day) 
- ADB Safeguards Policy Statement 
- Government of India and Tamil 
Naduapplicable safeguard laws, regulations 
and policies including but not limited to core 
labor standards, OH and S, etc. 
- Incorporation of EMP into the project 
design and contracts 
- Monitoring, reporting and corrective action 
planning 
All staff and 
consultants involved 
in the project 
 
At PMU (combined 
program for all PIU) 
- 
Included in the 
overall program 
cost 
---PAGE BREAK---
179 
 
Description Target Participants 
and  Venue 
Estimate 
(`) 
Cost and 
Source of 
Funds 
2. EMP implementation (1/2 day) 
- EMP mitigation  and  monitoring measures 
-Roles and responsibilities 
- Public relations, - Consultations 
- Grievance redress 
- Monitoring and corrective action planning 
- Reporting and disclosure 
- Construction site standard operating 
procedures (SOP) 
-- Chance find (archeological) protocol 
- AC pipe protocol 
- Traffic management plan 
- Waste management plan 
- Site clean-up  and  restoration 
- Controlled blasting 
All PIU staff, 
contractor staff and 
consultants involved 
in the  subproject 
 
At PIU 
- 
To be 
conducted by 
PIU office; part 
of project 
implementation 
cost 
3. Contractors Orientation to Workers (1/2 
day) 
- Environment, health and safety in project 
construction 
- Health & safety measures during 
coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic 
Once before start of 
work, and thereafter 
regular briefing every 
month once. 
Daily briefing on 
safety prior to start of 
work 
All workers (including 
unskilled laborers) 
- 
 
Contractors’ 
EHS officer to 
conduct 
program, with 
guidance of 
CMSC 
 
D. Monitoring and Reporting 
216. Immediately after mobilization and prior to commencement of the works, the contractor 
will submit a compliance report to PIU that all identified pre -construction mitigation measures as 
detailed in the EMP are undertaken. Contractor should confirm that the staff for EMP 
implementation (EHS supervisor) is mobilized. PIU will review, and approve the report and permit 
commencement of works. 
 
217. During construction, results from internal monitoring by the contractor wi ll be reflected in 
their monthly EMP implementation reports to the PIU. Safeguards Officer from PMU and 
Environmental Health and Safety Supervisor (EHS)  in PIU will monitor, review and advise 
contractors for corrective actions if necessary. Quarterly Environmental Monitoring Report 
summarizing compliance and corrective measures, if any, taken will be prepared by PIU and 
submitted to PMU (Report format is at Appendix 8). During operation, PIU will conduct 
management and monitoring actions as per the operation stage EMP, and submit to PMU annual 
report.  
 
218. Based on PIU Quarterly monitoringreports and oversight visits to subproject work sites, 
PMU will submit Environmental Monitoring Reports (EMRs) semiannually during construction and 
annually during operation, until the Project Completion Report (PCR) is issed by ADB. ADB will 
review, approve and disclose in ADB website as per SPS 2009 and Access to Information Policy 
---PAGE BREAK---
180 
 
2018, once concurrence from the ADB is received the report will be disclosed on TNUIFSL, PMU 
and CCMC websites. 
 
219. ADB will review project performance against the TNUFIPcommitments as agreed in the 
legal documents (loan and project agreements, etc.). The extent of ADB’s monitoring and 
supervision activities will be commensurate with the  project’s risks and impacts. Monitoring and 
supervising of social and environmental safeguards will be integrated into the project performance 
management system. 
 
E. Environmental Management Plan Implementation Cost 
220. Most of the mitigation measures require the contractors to adopt good site practices, which 
should be part of their normal procedures already, so there are unlikely to be major costs 
associated with compliance. The costs which are specific to EMP implementation and are not 
covered elsewhere in the projects are given below. 
Table 42: Cost Estimates to Implement the Environmental Management Plan 
 Particulars Stages Unit Total 
Number 
Rate 
(Rs) 
Cost 
(Rs) 
Costs 
Covered 
By 
A. Mitigation Measures       
1 Providing odor control system 
sewage  pumping and l ifting 
stations (gas capturing and 
treatment at requiredstations) and 
handheld H2S meters for monitoring 
(Refer Appendix 11) 
Design 
Lump 
sum 
provision 
- - 53,934,458 
Provisional 
sums of 
contract 
(PIU) 
2 Consent for establishments  and  
consent for operation from TNPCB 
Pre 
construct
ion 
Lump 
sum   200,000 
Project 
costs 
(PIU) 
3 Provision for tree cutting  and  
compensatory plantation measures 
(1: 10 ratio replantation)  (in case 
any encountered in the pipe laying 
/ no tree cutting is there in the lift / 
pump stations) 
Construc
tion Per tree 100 1,000 100,000 
Project 
costs 
(PIU) 
4 Preparation of plans traffic 
management plan, waste (spoils) 
management plan etc.,), traffic 
management at work sites  
(Pavement Markings, Channelizing 
Devices, Arrow Panels and 
Warning Lights) 
Construc
tion 
Lump 
sum - - 250,000 Civil works 
contract 
5 Safety barricading Construc
tion 
Lump 
sum 
Lumpsu
m  2,000,000 Civil works 
contract 
 Subtotal (A)     56,484,458  
B. Monitoring Measures       
1 Air quality monitoring Construc
tion 
per 
sample 48 5,000 240,000  
---PAGE BREAK---
181 
 
 
X. CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS 
221. The process described in this document has assessed the environmental impacts of all 
elements of the proposed underground sewerage subproject in Vadavalli,Veerakeralam, 
Koundampalayam and Thudiyalur areas of Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation. All poten tial 
impacts were identified in relation to pre -construction, construction, and operation phases.  
Planning principles and design considerations have been reviewed and incorporated into the site 
planning and design process wherever possible; thus, environmental impacts as being due to the 
project design or location were not significant. Mitigation measures have been developed to 
reduce all negative impacts to acceptable levels. These were discussed with specialists 
responsible for the engineering aspects, and as a result significant measures have already been 
included in the designs for the infrastructure. This means that the number of impacts and their 
significance has already been reduced by amending the design. Various design related measures 
suggested fo r: STP treatment process design to meet disposal standards, ensuring efficient 
treatment, rehabilitation of existing STP to ensure proper treatment and sludge management, 
odor control at pumping stations, uninterrupted power supply provision; standard oper ating 
procedures for operation and maintenance; and imparting necessary training for ULB staff; 
providing necessary safety no manual cleaning of sewers, and personal protection equipment for 
workers (protection against oxygen deficiency, harmful gaseous emissions) and sludge handling, 
and development of green buffer zone around the sewage treatment plant. 
 
222. The site selected for STP is located within a vast parcel of land owned by CCMC in the  
south zone of the city. Considering the current and future development around the facility, various 
measures are included in the subproject design, including: design of a compact, superior process 
with low -odor potential; sensitive layout design by maintaining adequate distance from the 
boundary, so that STP is deep inside the campus with tree cover around, etc.,. All the lifting and 
2 Noise levels monitoring Construc
tion 
Per 
sample 48 1,500 72,000  
3 Surface water monitoring Construc
tion 
Per 
sample 9 4,000 36,000  
4 Soil Quality monitoring Construc
tion 
Per 
sample 20 5,000 10,000  
 Subtotal (B)     358,000  
C. Capacity Building       
1. 
Training on EMP implementation 
Pre-
constructi
on 
   - 
Part of PIU  
and  
PMU , 
consultant 
tasks 
2. 
Contractors Orientation to Workers 
on EMP implementation 
Prior to 
dispatch 
to 
worksite 
   - 
Civil works 
contractor 
cost 
 Subtotal (C)     --  
        
 Total (A+B+C)    ₹ 5,68,42,458  
---PAGE BREAK---
182 
 
pumping station sites are situated on government owned vacant land parcels, and sewers will be 
laid on the public roads. Therefore subproject do not involve any private land acquisition.  
 
223. Sewage and pumping stations sites, which collect sewage from the sewer network and 
pump to higher level to convey to sewage to STP for safe treatment and disposal, are located 
within or near residential areas, which it will serve. These facilities may  generate odor and may 
cause nuisance to nearby households. Site selection is done with utmost care to located as far 
as away from the houses, however, given design considerations and land constraints, some of 
the sites identified are close to the houses. Various site planning, green buffer and design related 
measures are included in the project to prevent and control odor generation. These include: 
appropriately locating sewage wells within site maintaining maximum distance from the nearby 
houses;  developing tree cover; closed facilities; design and operation measures to prevent odor; 
and, providing gas collection and treatment facilities. Periodical odor monitoring is proposed at 
pumping and lifting stations. 
 
224. STP malfunction or decrease in treatment effi ciency will have adverse impacts.This will 
result in release of untreated or partially treated wastewater that will pollute environment and 
cause public health issues. STP would be designed by the DBOT contractor to meet the disposal 
standards and disposal is proposed into River NoyyalRequired measures to ensure that sewage 
system is operated and maintained with designed efficiency are to be included in the design and 
operation by the contractor. . Proper sludge management system to collect, treat and dispo se 
safety will be followed. Periodic monitoring of dried sludge to check suitability as a manure is 
suggested. 
 
225. Except sewer works, all other construction activities will be confined to the selected sites, 
and the interference with the general public and c ommunity around is minimal. There will be 
temporary negative impacts, arising mainly from construction dust and noise, hauling of 
construction material, waste and equipment on local roads (traffic, dust, safety etc.,), mining of 
construction material, occupation health and safety aspects. Sewer line works will be conducted 
along public roads in an urban area congested with people, activities and traffic, subproject is 
likely to significant impacts during construction. Impacts mainly arise from the construct ion dust 
and noise; from the disturbance of residents, businesses, traffic by the construction work, safety 
risk to workers, public and nearby buildings due to deep trench excavations, especially in narrow 
roads, dust, access impediment to houses and busin ess, disposal of  large quantities of 
construction waste, etc. Some sections of  the proposed alignment may have to opt for controlled 
blasting as the construction methodology for excavation owing to presence of hard rock. These 
are all general impacts of construction in urban areas, and there are well developed methods of 
mitigation that are suggested in the EMP.  
 
226. Once the new system is operating, the facilities will operate with routine maintenance, 
which should not affect the environment. Improved syste m operation will comply with the O&M 
manual and standard operating procedures to be developed for all the activities. 
 
227. Mitigation will be assured by a program of environmental monitoring conducted during 
construction and operation to ensure that all measur es are implemented, and to determine 
whether the environment is protected as intended. This will include observations on- and off-site, 
document checks, and interviews with workers and beneficiaries, and any requirements for 
remedial action will be reporte d to the PMU. There will also be longer -term surveys to monitor 
treatment efficiency of STP (raw and treated sewage quality), sludge and odor. Mitigation and 
monitoring measures, along with the project agency responsible for such actions, form part of the 
Environmental Management Plan.  
---PAGE BREAK---
183 
 
 
228. Stakeholders were involved in developing the IEE through face -to-face discussions, on 
site meetings, and a city level consultation workshop, which was conducted for larger public 
participation in the project. Views expresse d by the stakeholders were incorporated into the IEE 
and the planning and development of the project. The IEE will be made available at public 
locations and will be disclosed to a wider audience via the PMU, CCMC and ADB websites. The 
consultation process will be continued during project implementation, as necessary, to ensure 
that stakeholders are engaged in the project and have the opportunity to participate in its 
development and implementation. 
 
229. The project’s grievance redress mechanism will provide the  citizens with a platform for 
redress their grievances, and describes the informal and formal channels, time frame, and 
mechanisms for resolving complaints about environmental performance. 
 
230. The EMP will assist the project agencies and contractor in mitigating the environmental 
impacts, and guide them in the environmentally sound execution of the proposed project.A copy 
of the updated EMP/ SEP shall be kept on -site during the construction peri od at all times. The 
EMP shall be made binding on all contractors operating on the site, and will be included in the 
contractual clauses to ensure compliance to the conditions set out in this document.  
 
231. The citizens of the Zone 5 and Zone 7 of CCMC will be the major beneficiaries of this 
subproject. The new sewerage system will remove the human waste from those areas served by 
the network rapidly and treated to an acceptable standard, and treated wastewater is utilized 
beneficial purposes. In addition to improved environmental conditions, the subproject will improve 
the over-all public health in theproject area. Diseases of poor sanitation, such as diarrhea and 
dysentery, should be reduced, so people should spend less on healthcare and lose fewer working 
days due to illness, so their economic status should also improve, as well as their overall health.  
 
232. This subproject is split into three contract packages for implementation: (i) sewer system 
in Zone 5, (ii) sewer system in Zone 7, and (iii) two STPs. Sewer system packages are of ‘Works’ 
type contract while STP contract is of design -build-operate (DBO) modality, where in which 
contractor will design STP, build and operate for a duration agreed in the contract. 
 
233. Therefore, as per ADB SPS, the project is classified as environmental category B and 
does not require further environmental impact assessment. However, to conform to government 
guidelines STPs require consent to establish (CTE) and consent to operate (CTO) from Tamil 
Nadu Pollution Control Board. CTE shall be obtained prior to construction.  The receiving 
waterbodies of the treated effluent from STPs, namely Periyakulam and Noyyal River are under 
Coimbatore Corporation and PWD respectively and require no -objection for the disposal of 
treated effluent.  
 
234. This draft IEE will be updated during the detailed design phase of STP, and if required 
further during the implementation to reflect any changes in sewer system or STPs. Updated IEE 
will be submitted to ADB for review, clearance and disclosure 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
184 Appendix 1 
 
 
Appendix 1: RAPID ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST 
 
 
Instructions: 
❑ This checklist is to be prepared to support the environmental classification of a project. It is to 
be attached to the environmental categorization form that is to be prepared and submitted to 
the Chief Compliance Officer of the Regional and Sustainable Development Department. 
❑ This checklist is to be completed with the assistance of an Environment Specialist in a Regional 
Department. 
❑ This checklist focuses on environmental issues and concerns. To ensure that social 
dimensions are adequately considered, refer also to ADB checklists and handboo ks on (i) 
involuntary resettlement, (ii) indigenous peoples planning, (iii) poverty reduction, (iv) 
participation, and (v) gender and development. 
❑ Answer the questions assuming the “without mitigation” case. The purpose is to identify 
potential impacts. Use the “remarks” section to discuss any anticipated mitigation measures. 
Country/Project Title:  
 
 
Sector Division:   
Screening Questions Yes/No Remarks 
A. Project Siting  is the project 
area…   
• Densely populated? Yes No 
Subproject activities are located in the outer 
areas of Coimbatore city, which were originally 
townpanchayats. Old habilitation areas within 
these townpanchayatshave density residential 
pockets, with narrow and congested roads. 
Newly developing residential  areas have low 
density and well planned layouts. Agriculture is 
still practiced in the outer areas. 
• Heavy with development 
activities? Yes No It is a developing area; urban expansion is 
considerable 
• Adjacent to or within any 
environmentally sensitive areas? Yes No - 
• Cultural heritage site Yes No - 
• Protected Area Yes No - 
• Wetland Yes No - 
• Mangrove Yes No - 
• Estuarine Yes No - 
• Buffer zone of protected area Yes No - 
• Special area for protecting 
biodiversity Yes No - 
• Bay Yes No - 
B. Potential Environmental 
Impacts 
Will the Project cause… 
  
Sewerage   
• impairment of historical/cultural 
monuments/areas and loss/damage Yes No No historical or cultural sites in the subproject 
area 
Sewerage 
India/Tamil Nadu Urban Flagship Investment Program –  Underground 
Sewerage Subproject for Vadavalli,Veerakeralam, Koundampalayam and 
Thudiyalur Areas of Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation 
Urban Development 
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 1 185 
 
to these sites? 
• interference with other utilities 
and 
blocking of access to buildings; 
nuisance to neighboring areas due to 
noise, smell, and influx of insects, 
rodents, etc.? 
Yes No 
Few sewage lifting and pump stations are 
located close to the house, and odor may 
create nuisance. Necessary measures are 
included to prevent and control odor; no net 
negative impacts envisaged 
• dislocation or involuntary 
resettlement 
of people? 
Yes No Do not involve land acquisition or resettlement 
• disproportionate impacts on the 
poor, 
women and children, Indigenous 
Peoples or other vulnerable groups? 
Yes No 
No such possibilities; .sewerage system will 
cover entire population including urban poor; In 
fact, it will have positive heal th impact due to 
improved sanitation condition. 
• impairment of downstream water 
quality due to inadequate sewage 
treatment or release of untreated 
sewage? 
Yes No Adequate capacity sewage treatment facility is 
being development under this subproject; 
• overflows and flooding of 
neighboring 
properties with raw sewage? 
Yes No 
Sewerage system has been designed 
considering the population growth. It has been 
designed to accommodate sewage until design 
year. Design considers standard peak factors 
and therefore no such impact envisaged. 
• environmental pollution due to 
inadequate sludge disposal or 
industrial waste discharges illegally 
disposed in sewers? 
Yes No 
Proper sludge collection, treatment and 
disposal process is part of STP; sewerage 
system caters only domestic sewage; no 
industrial effluent is allowed into sewers 
• noise and vibration due to 
blasting 
and other civil works? 
Yes No 
Temporary nuisance/disturbance due to 
construction activities will be minimized with 
appropriate mitigation measures.  In case 
encountered with excavation in hard rock, only 
controlled blasting will be adopted as 
construction methodology with all mitigation 
and safety measures. Necessary noise and 
vibration protection measures (e.g., covered 
with M.S.Sheets + Excavated earh + Sand  
filled gunny bags) are deployed. All necessary 
permissions will be obtained from District 
Collector, Coimbatore, prior to start of the 
controlled blasting work. 
• risks and vulnerabilities related 
to 
occupational health and safety due to 
physical, chemical , and biological 
hazards during project construction 
and operation? 
 Yes  No 
In appropriate handling of sludge may have 
occupational health hazard. All necessary 
safety precautions will be taken to avoid any 
risk. 
• discharge of hazardous 
materials into 
sewers, resulting in damage to sewer 
system and danger to workers? 
Yes No 
There are no sources of hazardous material 
that will find its way into the sewers. 
Wastewater other than domestic will not be 
discharged into the sewers. 
---PAGE BREAK---
186 Appendix 1 
 
 
• inadequate buffer zone around 
pumping and treatment plants to 
alleviate noise and other possible 
nuisances, and protect facilities? 
Yes No 
Due to technical constraints and land 
availability, some pumping stations are located 
close to houses, however, necessary 
measures are included in site planning, design 
and operation. No net negative impacts 
envisaged 
• road blocking and temporary 
flooding 
due to land excavation during the 
rainy season? 
Yes No 
Complete road block are not envisaged; in 
narrow roads, traffic may be diverted but 
access will be ensure for pedestrians. All  
necessary precautions will be taken to prevent 
flooding during construction; flooding is 
unlikely as work will be mostly be conducted 
during dry season. 
• noise and dust from construction 
activities? Yes No 
As the sewers will be lain on the road surface, 
cutting open of road surface using pneumatic 
drills will produce noise. Appropriate measures 
are suggested to minimize impact. Dust will be 
temporary and will be controlled with proper 
measures. If needed, controlled blasting will be 
carried out with necessary precautionary 
measures. Dust will be controlled with proper 
measures. 
• traffic disturbances due to 
construction material transport and 
wastes? 
Yes No 
Proper planning, such as selection of routes 
and scheduling to avoid peak traffic hours, will 
be carried out in consultation w ith concerned 
authorities 
• temporary silt runoff due to 
construction? Yes No 
Earthworks will not be conducted during rains; 
plain topography and moderate to low rains, so 
no such impact envisaged 
• hazards to public health due to 
overflow flooding, and groundwater 
pollution due to failure of sewerage 
system? 
Yes No 
A chance of failure of sewerage system is very 
remote; proper design and standard operating 
procedures will be followed in O&M; necessary 
equipment and training to workers will be 
provided 
• deterioration of water quality due 
to 
inadequate sludge disposal or direct 
discharge of untreated sewage 
water? 
Yes No The STP design include adequate sludge 
treatment facilities 
• contamination of surface and 
ground 
waters due to sludge disposal on 
land? 
Yes No 
The STP design include adequate sludge 
treatment facilities and the dried sludge will be 
utilized as manure 
• Health and safety hazards to 
workers 
from toxic gases and hazardous 
materials which maybe contained in 
confined areas, sewage flow and 
exposure to pathogens in untreated 
sewage and unstabilized sludge? 
Yes No 
Manual cleaning of sewers and facilities will be 
avoided. All necessary health and safety 
training and necessary personal prot ection 
equipment  will be given to workers and staff 
during operation of sewerage system 
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 1 187 
 
• Large population increase during 
project construction and operation 
that causes increased burden on 
social infrastructure (such as 
sanitation system)? 
Yes No 
No such impact anticipated; local communities 
in the vicinity of the project would be employed 
as much as possible. 
• Social conflicts between 
construction 
workers from other areas and 
community workers? 
Yes No 
No such impact anticipated; local communities 
in the vicinity of the project would be employed 
as much as possible. 
• risks to co mmunity health and 
safety 
due to the transport, storage, and use 
and/or disposal of materials such as 
explosives, fuel and other chemica ls 
during construction and operation? 
Yes No Not applicable. Construction/operation will not 
involve use of explosives and chemicals. 
• community safety risks due to 
both 
accidental and natural hazards, 
especially where the structural 
elements or components of the 
project  are accessible to members of 
the affected community or where their 
failure could result in injury to the 
community throughout project 
construction, operation and 
decommissioning? 
Yes No 
Operational area wil l be clearly demarcated 
and access will be controlled.  Only worker and 
project concerned members will be allowed to 
visit the construction sites. 
. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
188 Appendix 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Climate Change and Disaster Risk Questions 
The following questions are not for environmental 
categorization. They are included in this checklist to help 
identify potential climate and disaster risks. 
Yes No Remarks 
Is the Project area subject to hazards such as earthquakes, 
floods, landslides, tropical cyclone winds, storm surges, 
tsunami or volcanic eruptions and climate changes? 
✓  Moderate earth quake risk 
zone (Zone III) 
Could changes in temperature, precipitation, or extreme 
events patterns over the Project lifespan affect technical or 
financial sustainability (e.g., changes in rainfall patterns 
disrupt reliability of water supply; sea level rise creates 
salinity intrusion into proposed water supply source)? 
 ✓ No 
Are there any demographic or socio-economic aspects of the 
Project area that are already vulnerable (e.g.,high incidence 
of marginalized populations, rural -urban migrants, illegal 
settlements, ethnic minorities, women or children)? 
 ✓ No 
Could the Project potentially increase the climate or disaster 
vulnerability of the surrounding area (e.g., by using water 
from a  vulnerable source that is relied upon by many user 
groups, or encouraging settlement in earthquake zones)? 
 ✓ No 
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 2 189 
 
 
Appendix 2:SALIENT FEATURES OF MAJOR LABOR LAWS APPLICABLE TO 
ESTABLISHMENTS ENGAGED IN CONSTRUCTION OF CIVIL WORKS 
 
(i) Workmen Compensation Act, 1923 - The Act provides for compensation in case of injury 
by accident arising out of and during the course of employment. 
 
(ii) Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 - Gratuity is payable to an employee under the Act on 
satisfaction of certain conditions on separation if an employee has completed 5 years’ service or 
more or on death at the rate of 15 days wages for every completed year of service. The Act is 
applicable to all establishments employing 10 or more employees. 
 
(iii)  Employees’ PF an d Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 - The Act provides for monthly 
contributions by the employer plus workers @10 % or 8.33 %.  The benefits payable under the 
Act are: (a) Pension or family pension on retirement or death as the case may be; (b) deposit 
linked insurance on the death in harness of the worker; (c) payment of PF accumulation on 
retirement/death etc. 
 
(iv)  Maternity Benefit Act, 1951 - The Act provides for leave and some other benefits to women 
employees in case of confinement or miscarriage etc. 
 
(v)  Contract Labor (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 - The Act provides for certain welfare 
measures to be provided by the Contractor to contract labor and in case the Contractor fails to 
provide, the same are required to be provided by the Princi pal Employer by Law.  The principal 
employer is required to take Certificate of Registration and the Contractor is required to take a 
License from the designated Officer. The Act is applicable to the establishments or Contractor of 
principal employer if they employ 20 or more contract labor. 
 
(vi)  Minimum Wages Act, 1948 - The employer is supposed to pay not less than the Minimum 
Wages fixed by appropriate Government as per provisions of the Act if the employment is a 
scheduled employment.  Construction of Buildings, Roads, Runways are scheduled employment. 
 
(vii)  Payment of Wages Act, 1936 - It lays down as to by what date the wages are to be paid, 
when it will be paid and what deductions can be made from the wages of the workers. 
 
(viii)  Equal Remuneration Act, 1979 - The Act provides for payment of equal wages for work of 
equal nature to Male and Female workers and not for making discrimination against Female 
employees in the matters of transfers, training and promotions etc. 
 
(ix)  Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 - The Act is applicable to all establishments employing 20 or 
more workmen. The Act provides for payments of annual bonus subject to a minimum of 8.33 % 
of wages and maximum of 20 % of wages to employees drawing Rs. 3,500/ - per month or less. 
The bonus to be paid to employees getting 2,500/- per month or above up to Rs.3,500/-  
per month shall be worked out by taking wages as Rs.2,500/ - per month only. The Act does 
notapply to certain establishments. The newly set up establishments are exempted for five years 
in certain circumstances. Some of the State Governments have reduced the employment size 
from 20 to 10 for the purpose of applicability of the Act. 
 
(x)  Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 - The Act lays down the machinery and procedure for 
resolution of industrial disputes, in what situations a strike or lock -out becomes illegal and what 
---PAGE BREAK---
190 Appendix 2 
 
 
are the requirements for laying off or retrenching the employees or closing down the 
establishment. 
 
(xi)  Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 - It is applicable to all establishments 
employing 100 or more workmen (employment size reduced by some of the States and Central 
Government to 50). The Act provides for laying down rules governing the conditions of 
employment by the employer on matters pr ovided in the Act and get the same certified by the 
designated Authority. 
 
(xii) Trade Unions Act, 1926 - The Act lays down the procedure for registration of trade unions 
of workmen and employees. The trade unions registered under the Act have been given c ertain 
immunities from civil and criminal liabilities. 
 
(xiii) Child Labor (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986 - The Act prohibits employment of 
children below 14 years of age in certain occupations and processes and provides for regulation 
of employment of children in all other occupations and processes.  Employment of child labor is 
prohibited in Building and Construction Industry. 
 
(xiv) Inter-State Migrant Workmen's (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 
1979 - The Act is applicabl e to an establishment which employs 5 or more inter -state migrant 
workmen through an intermediary (who has recruited workmen in one state for employment in the 
establishment situated in another state).  The inter-state migrant workmen, in an establishment 
to which this Act becomes applicable, are required to be provided certain facilities such as 
housing, medical aid, traveling expenses from home up to the establishment and back, etc. 
 
(xv) The Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions 
of Service) Act, 1996 and the Cess Act of 1996 - All the establishments who carry on any building 
or other construction work and employ 10 or more workers are covered under this Act.  All such 
establishments are required to pay Cess at ra te not exceeding 2% of the cost of construction as 
may be notified by the Government. The employer of the establishment is required to provide 
safety measures at the building or construction work and other welfare measures, such as 
canteens, first-aid facilities, ambulance, housing accommodation for workers near the workplace 
etc.  The employer to whom the Act applies has to obtain a registration certificate from the 
Registering Officer appointed by the Government. 
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 3 191 
 
 
Appendix 3: SAMPLE OUTLINE SPOILS (CONSTRUCTION WASTE) MANAGEMENT PLAN 
 
• The Spoil Management Plan should be site specific and be part of the monthly 
Construction Management Plan.  
• The contractor, in consultation with the PIU, has to find out appropriate location/s for the 
disposal of the excess soil generated.  The spoils should be deposited only at these sites.  
• Further precautions need to be taken in case of the contaminated spoils  
• The vehicle carrying the spoil should be covered properly.  
• The spoils generating from each site should be removed on the same day or immediately 
after the work is complete. The site / road should be restored to the original condition.  
 
I. Spoils information 
 
The spoil information contains the details like a) The type / material, b) Potential contamination 
by that type, c) Expected volume (site / component specific), d) Spoil Classification etc.  
  
II. Spoils management 
 
The Spoil Management section gives the details of a) Transportation of spoil b) disposal site 
details c) Precautions taken d) Volume of contaminated spoil, if present, d) Suggested reuse of 
disposal of the spoil 
  
III. Documentation 
 
The Volume of Spoil Generated (Site Specific, Date Wise), Site Disposed, Reuse / Disposal 
Details Should Be Documented Properly. 
---PAGE BREAK---
192 Appendix 4 
 
 
Appendix 4: PUBLIC INFORMATION NOTICE TEMPLATE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Announcement 
Providing Underground Sewerage System Coimbatore City 
Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation 
 
Under this project,  works are being conducted by xxxx Contractor to provide sewerage network 
in Coimbatore 
 
As part of this, works for laying pipeline / sewerage network will be taken up in -------- road----/ 
street/ lane ………. From……………to (provide dates). 
 
We request you to kindly co-operate for smooth implementation of the works.  
 
We also request you to drive vehicles / pedestrians to walk carefully 
 
Inconvenience caused is regretted. 
 
PIU - Contact No. 
Contractor – Contact no. 
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 5 193 
 
 
Appendix 5: SAMPLE GRIEVANCE REGISTRATION FORM 
(To be available in Tamil and English) 
 
The _____________________________________Project welcomes complaints, suggestions, 
queries, and comments regarding project implementation. We encourage persons with grievance 
to provide their name and contact information to enable us to get in touch with you for clarification 
and feedback. 
Should you choose to include your personal details but want that information to remain 
confidential, please inform us by writing/typing *(CONFIDENTIAL)* above your name. Thank you. 
 
Date  Place of registration Project Town 
 
Project: 
Contact information/personal details  
Name  Gender * Male 
* Female 
Age  
Home address  
Place  
Phone no.  
E-mail  
Complaint/suggestion/comment/question Please provide the details (who, what, where, and 
how) of your grievance below: 
 
If included as attachment/note/letter, please tick here:  
How do you want us to reach you for feedback or update on your comment/grievance? 
 
 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
Registered by: (Name of official registering grievance) 
 
Mode of communication:  
Note/letter 
E-mail 
Verbal/telephonic 
Reviewed by: (Names/positions of officials reviewing grievance) 
 
Action taken: 
 
Whether action taken disclosed: 
 
Yes 
No 
Means of disclosure:  
 
---PAGE BREAK---
194 Appendix 6 
  
 
Appendix 6: SAMPLE OUTLINE TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT PLAN 
 
A. Principles for TMP around the Water Pipes Construction Sites 
 
• One of the prime objectives of this TMP is to ensure the safety of all the road users along 
the work zone, and to address the following issues: 
(i) the safety of pedestrians, bicyclists, and motorists travelling through the 
construction zone; 
(ii) protection of work crews from hazards associated with moving traffic; 
(iii) mitigation of the adverse impact on road capacity and delays to the road users; 
(iv) maintenance of access to adjoining properties; and 
(v) addressing issues that may delay the project. 
 
B. Operating Policies for TMP 
 
• The following principles will help promote safe and efficient movement for all road users 
(motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians, including persons with disabilities) through and around 
work zones while reasonably protecting workers and equipment. 
(i) Make traffic safety and temporary traffic control an integral and high -priority 
element of project from planning through design, construction, and maintenance. 
(ii) Inhibit traffic movement as little as possible. 
(iii) Provide clear and positive guidance to drivers, bicyclists, and pedestrians as they 
approach and travel through the temporary traffic control zone. 
(iv) Inspect traffic control elements routinely, both day and night, and make 
modifications when necessary. 
(v) Pay increased attention to roadside safety in the vicinity of temporary traffic control 
zones. 
(vi) Train all persons that select, place, and maintain temporary traffic control devices. 
(vii) Keep the public well informed. 
(viii) Make appropriate accommodation for abutting property owners, reside nts, 
businesses, emergency services, railroads, commercial vehicles, and transit 
operations. 
 
C. Analyze the impact due to street closure 
 
• Apart from the capacity analysis, a final decision to close a particular street and divert the 
traffic should involve the following steps: 
(i) approval from the ULB/Public Works Department (PWD) to use the local streets 
as detours; 
(ii) consultation with businesses, community members, traffic police, PWD, etc, 
regarding the mitigation measures necessary at the detours where the r oad is 
diverted during the construction; 
(iii) determining of the maximum number of days allowed for road closure, and 
incorporation of such provisions into the contract documents;  
(iv) determining if additional traffic control or temporary improvements are needed 
along the detour route;  
(v) considering how access will be provided to the worksite;  
(vi) contacting emergency service, school officials, and transit authorities to determine 
if there are impacts to their operations; and  
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 6 195 
 
 
(vii) developing a notification program to the public so that the closure is not a surprise. 
As part of this program, the public should be advised of alternate routes that 
commuters can take or will have to take as result of the traffic diversion. 
 
• If full road -closure of certain streets within the area is not feasible due to inadequate 
capacity of the detour street or public opposition, the full closure can be restricted to weekends 
with the construction commencing on Saturday night and ending on Monday morning prior to the 
morning peak period.  
 
Figure A6.1: Policy Steps for the Traffic Management Plan 
 
 
 
D. Public awareness and notifications 
 
• As per discussions in the previous sections, there will be travel delays during the 
constructions, as is the case with most construction projects, albeit on a reduced scale if utilities 
and traffic management are properly coordinated. There are additional grounds for travel delays 
in the area, as most of the streets lack sufficient capacity to accommodate additional traffic from 
diverted traffic as a result of street closures to accommodate the works.   
 
• The awareness campaign and the prior notification for  the public will be a continuous 
activity which the project will carry out to compensate for the above delays and minimize public 
claims as result of these problems. These activities will take place sufficiently in advance of the 
time when the roadblocks or traffic diversions take place at the particular streets. The reason for 
Review
• Review construction schedule and  methods
Traffic Re-
Circulation
• Identify  initial traffic recirculation and  control policy
Traffic 
Diversions
• Identify routes for traffic diversions
• Analyse adverse impact   and  mitigation  at the detours
Full Road 
Colsures
• Begin community  consultation for consensus
• Finalise or determine alternate detours 
Temporary  
parking
• Identify temporary parking (on and off -street )
• Discuss with CMC, owner, community  for use
Police 
Coordination 
• Coordinate with theTraffic Police to enforce  traffic  and diversions 
Install control 
devices
• Install traffic control devices (traffic cones, sgns, lightings, etc)
Awareness  • Conduct  campaigns, publicity, and notify public about street closure
Public
Redress
• Develop a mechanism to address public grievances regarding disruptons (traffic, utilities, and 
diversions)
---PAGE BREAK---
196 Appendix 6 
 
 
this is to allow sufficient time for the public and residents to understand the changes to their travel 
plans. The project will notify the public about the roadblocks and traffic div ersion through public 
notices, ward level meetings and city level meeting with the elected representatives.  
 
• The PIU will also conduct an awareness campaign to educate the public about the 
following issues: 
(i) traffic control devices in place at the work zones (signs, traffic cones, barriers, etc.); 
(ii) defensive driving behaviour along the work zones; and 
(iii) reduced speeds enforced at the work zones and traffic diversions. 
 
• It may be necessary to conduct the awareness programs/campaigns on road safety during 
construction. 
 
• The campaign will cater to all types of target groups i.e. children, adults, and drivers. 
Therefore, these campaigns will be conducted in schools and community centers. In addition, the 
project will publish a brochure for public information. These brochures will be widely circulated 
around the area and will also be available at the PIU, and the contractor's site office. The text of 
the brochure should be concise to be effective, with a lot of graphics. It will serve the following 
purpose: 
(i) explain why the brochure was prepared, along with a brief description of the 
project; 
(ii) advise the public to expect the unexpected; 
(iii) educate the public about the various traffic control devices and safety measures 
adopted at the work zones; 
(iv) educate t he public about the safe road user behaviour to emulate at the work 
zones; 
(v) tell the public how to stay informed or where to inquire about road safety issues at 
the work zones (name, telephone, mobile number of the contact person; and 
(vi) indicate the office hours of relevant offices. 
 
E. Install traffic control devices at the work zones and traffic diversion routes 
• The purpose of installing traffic control devices at the work zones is to delineate these 
areas to warn, inform, and direct the road users about a h azard ahead, and to protect them as 
well as the workers. As proper delineation is a key to achieve the above objective, it is important 
to install good traffic signs at the work zones.  The following traffic control devices are used in 
work zones: 
❑ Signs  
❑ Pavement Markings 
❑ Channelizing Devices   
❑ Arrow Panels 
❑ Warning Lights 
• Procedures for installing traffic control devices at any work zone vary, depending on road 
configuration, location of the work, construction activity, duration, traffic speed and volume, a nd 
pedestrian traffic. Work will take place along major roads, and the minor internal roads.  As such, 
the traffic volume and road geometry vary. The main roads carry considerable traffic; internal 
roads in the new city areas are wide but in old city roads  very narrow and carry considerable 
traffic. However, regardless of where the construction takes place, all the work zones should be 
cordoned off, and traffic shifted away at least with traffic cones, barricades, and temporary signs 
(temporary “STOP” and “GO”).   
 
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 6 197 
 
 
• Figure A6.2 to Figure A6.6 illustrates a typical set-up for installing traffic control devices 
at the work zone of the area, depending on the location of work on the road way, and road 
geometrics: 
❑ Work on shoulder or parking lane 
❑ Shoulder or parking lane closed on divided road 
❑ Work in Travel lane 
❑  Lane closure on road with low volume 
❑ Street closure with detour 
 
• The work zone should take into consideration the space required for a buffer zone 
between the workers and the traffic (lateral and longitudinal) and the transition space required for 
delineation, as applicable. For the works, a 30 cm clearance between the traffic and the temporary 
STOP and GO signs should be provided. In addition, at least 60 cm is necessary to install the 
temporary traffic signs and cones.  
 
• Traffic police should regulate traffic away from the work zone and enforce the traffic 
diversion result from full street closure in certain areas during construction. Flagggers/ personnel 
should be equipped with reflective jackets at  all times and have traffic control batons (preferably 
the LED type) for regulating the traffic during night time. 
 
• In addition to the delineation devices, all the construction workers should wear fluorescent 
safety vests and helmets in order to be visible  to the motorists at all times. There should be 
provision for lighting beacons and illumination for night constructions.  
 
---PAGE BREAK---
198 Appendix 6 
 
 
Figure A6.2  and  A6.3: Work on Shoulder or Parking Lane  and  Shoulder or Parking 
Lane Closed on Divided Road 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 6 199 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure A6.4  and  A6.5: Work in Travel Lane  and  Lane Closure on Road with Low 
Volume 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
200 Appendix 6 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure A6.6: Street Closure with Detour 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 7 201 
 
 
Appendix 7: SAMPLE ENVIRONMENTAL SITE INSPECTION REPORT 
 
Project Name  
Contract Number 
 
NAME: __________________________________ DATE: __________________________ 
TITLE: ___________________________________ DMA: ___________________________ 
LOCATION: _______________________________GROUP: ________________________ 
 
WEATHER: 
Project 
Activity 
Stage 
Survey  
Design  
Implementation  
Pre-Commissioning  
Guarantee Period  
 
Monitoring Items Compliance 
Compliance marked as Yes / No / Not applicable  (NA) / Partially Implemented (PI)  
EHS supervisor appointed by contractor and available on site  
Construction site management plan (spoils, safety, schedule, equipment etc.,) prepared  
Traffic management plan prepared   
Dust is under control  
Excavated soil properly placed within minimum space   
Construction area is confined; no traffic/pedestrian entry observed   
Surplus soil/debris/waste is disposed without delay   
Construction material (sand/gravel/aggregate) brought to site as  and  when required only   
Tarpaulins used to cover sand  and  other loose material when transported by vehicles   
After unloading , wheels  and  undercarriage of vehicles cleaned prior to leaving the site   
No AC pipes disturbed/removed during excavation   
No chance finds encountered during excavation     
Work is planned in consultation with traffic police   
Work is not being conducted during heavy traffic   
Work at a stretch is completed within a day (excavation, pipe laying  and  backfilling)   
Pipe trenches are not kept open unduly   
Road is not completely closed; work is conducted on edge; at least one line is kept open   
Road is closed; alternative route provided  and  public informed, information board provided   
Pedestrian access to houses is not blocked due to pipe laying   
Spaces left in between trenches for access   
Wooden planks/metal sheets provided across trench for pedestrian   
No public/unauthorized entry observed in work site   
Children safety measures  (barricades, security)  in place at works in residential areas   
Prior public information provided about the work, schedule and disturbances   
Caution/warning board provided on site   
Guards with red flag provided during work at busy roads   
Workers using appropriate PPE (boots, gloves, helmets, ear muffs etc)   
Workers conducting or near heavy noise work is provided with ear muffs    
Contractor is following standard  and  safe construction practices   
Deep excavation is conducted with land slip/protection measures   
First aid facilities are available on site and workers informed   
Drinking water provided at the site   
Toilet facility provided at the site   
---PAGE BREAK---
202 Appendix 7 
 
Monitoring Items Compliance 
Separate toilet facility is provided for women workers    
Workers camps are maintained cleanly   
Adequate toilet  and  bath facilities provided   
Contractor employed local workers as far as possible   
Workers camp set up with the permission of PIU   
Adequate housing provided   
Sufficient water provided for drinking/washing/bath   
No noisy work is conducted in the nights   
Local people informed of noisy work   
No blasting activity conducted   
Pneumatic drills or other equipment creating vibration is not used near old/risky buildings   
 
 
Signature 
_______________________________________ 
 
Sign off 
 
_______________________________  ________________________________ 
Name         Name 
Position       Position 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 8 203 
 
 
Appendix 8: SEMI-ANNUAL ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING REPORT TEMPLATE 
 
1. Introduction 
• Overall project description and objectives 
• Environmental category as per ADB Safeguard Policy Statement, 2009 
• Environmental category of each subproject as per national laws and regulations 
• Project Safeguards Team 
 
Name Designation/Office Email Address Contact Number 
1. PMU    
    
    
    
2. PIUs    
    
    
    
    
3. Consultants    
    
    
    
    
 
• Overall project and sub-project progress and status 
 
• Description of subprojects (package-wise) and status of implementation (preliminary, detailed 
design, on-going construction, completed, and/or O&M stage) 
Package 
Number 
Components/List 
of Works 
Status of Implementation 
(Preliminary Design/Detailed 
Design/On-going 
Construction/Completed/O&M)18 
Contract 
Status 
(specify if 
under 
bidding or 
contract 
awarded) 
If On-going Construction 
%Physical 
Progress 
Expected 
Completion 
Date 
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 If on-going construction, include %physical progress and expected date of completion  
---PAGE BREAK---
204 Appendix 8 
 
 
2. Compliance Status With National/State/Local Statutory Environmental 
Requirements 19 
Package 
No. 
Subproject 
Name 
Statutory 
Environmental 
Requirements20 
Status of 
Compliance21 
Validity if 
obtained 
Action 
Required 
Specific 
Conditions that 
will require 
environmental 
monitoring as 
per 
Environment 
Clearance, 
Consent/Permit 
to Establish22 
       
       
       
 
3. Compliance Status With Environmental Loan Covenants 
No. (List schedule and 
paragraph number of 
Loan Agreement) 
Covenant Status of Compliance Action Required 
    
    
    
 
4. Compliance Status With The Environmental Management Plan (Refer To EMP 
Tables In Approved IEE/S) 
• Confirm if IEE/s require contractors to submit site -specific EMP/construction EMPs. If not, 
describe the methodology of monitoring each package under implementation. 
 
Package-wise Implementation Status 
Package 
Number 
Components Design Status 
(Preliminary 
Design 
Stage/Detailed 
Design 
Completed) 
Final IEE based on Detailed Design Site-specific 
EMP (or 
Construction 
EMP) 
approved by 
Project 
Director?  
(Yes/No) 
Remarks 
Not yet due 
(detailed 
design not yet 
completed) 
Submitted to 
ADB (Provide 
Date of 
Submission) 
Disclosed 
on project 
website 
(Provide 
Link) 
Final IEE 
provided to 
Contractor/s 
(Yes/No) 
 
         
         
         
         
         
         
 
 
19 All statutory clearance/s, no -objection certificates, permit/s, etc. should be obtained prior to award of contract/s. 
Attach as appendix all clearance obtained during the reporting period. If al ready reported, specify in the 
“remarks” column. 
20 Specify (environmental clearance? Permit/consent to establish? Forest clearance?Etc.) 
21 Specify if obtained, submitted and awaiting approval, application not yet submitted 
22Example: Environmental Clearance  requires ambient air quality monitoring, Forest Clearance/Tree -cutting Permit 
requires 2 trees for every tree, etc. 
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 8 205 
 
 
• Identify the role/s of Safeguards Team including schedule of on -site verification of reports 
submitted by consultants and contractors. 
• For each package, provide name/s and contact details of contractor/s’ nodal person/s for 
environmental safeguards. 
• Include as appendix all supporting documents including signed monthly environmental site 
inspection reports prepared by consultants and/or contractors. 
• With reference to approved EMP/site -specific EMP/construction EMP, complete the table 
below 
• Provide the monitoring results as per the parameters outlined in the approved EMP (or site -
specific EMP/construction EMP when applicable). 
• In addition to the table on EMP implementation, the main text of the r eport should discuss in 
details the following items: 
(i) Grievance Redress Mechanism.  Provide information on establishment of 
grievance redress mechanism and capacity of grievance redress committee to address 
project-related issues/complaints. Include as appendix Notification of the GRM (town-wise 
if applicable). 
(ii) Complaints Received during the Reporting Period.  Provide information on 
number, nature, and resolution of complaints received during reporting period. Attach 
records as per GRM in the approved IEE. Identify safeguards team member/s involved in 
the GRM process. Attach minutes of meetings (ensure English translation is provided). 
 
a. Confirm if any dust was noted to escape the site boundaries and identify dust 
suppression techniques followed for site/s. 
b. Identify muddy water was escaping site boundaries or muddy tracks were seen on 
adjacent roads. 
c. Identify type of erosion and sediment control measures installed on site/s, 
condition of erosion and sediment control measures including if these were intac t 
following heavy rain; 
d. Identify designated areas for concrete works, chemical storage, construction 
materials, and refueling. Attach photographs of each area. 
e. Confirm spill kits on site and site procedure for handling emergencies. 
f. Identify any chemical stored on site and provide information on storage condition. 
Attach photograph. 
g. Describe management of stockpiles (construction materials, excavated soils, 
spoils, etc.). Provide photographs. 
h. Describe management of solid and liquid wastes on -site (quantity g enerated, 
transport, storage and disposal). Provide photographs. 
i. Provide information on barricades, signages, and on -site boards. Provide 
photographs. 
j. Provide information on  
k. Checking if there are any activities being under taken out of working hours and 
how that is being managed. 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 8 206 
 
 
Summary of Environmental Monitoring Activities (for the Reporting Period)23 
Impacts (List 
from IEE) 
Mitigation 
Measures (List 
from IEE) 
Parameters Monitored (As a 
minimum those identified in 
the IEE should be monitored) 
Method of 
Monitoring 
Location of 
Monitoring 
Date of 
Monitoring 
Conducted 
Name of Person 
Who Conducted 
the Monitoring 
Design Phase 
       
       
       
       
Pre-Construction Phase 
       
       
       
       
Construction Phase 
       
       
       
       
Operational Phase 
       
       
       
       
 
 
 
23 Attach Laboratory Results and Sampling Map/Locations 
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 8 207 
  
 
 
Overall Compliance with CEMP/ EMP 
No. Sub-Project 
Name 
EMP/ CEMP Part 
of Contract 
Documents (Y/N) 
CEMP/ EMP 
Being 
Implemented 
(Y/N) 
Status of Implementation 
(Excellent/ Satisfactory/ 
Partially Satisfactory/ 
Below Satisfactory) 
Action Proposed 
and Additional 
Measures 
Required 
      
      
      
 
5. Approach And Methodology For Environmental Monitoring Of The Project 
• Brief description on the approach and methodology used for environmental monitoring of 
each sub-project 
 
6. Monitoring Of Environmental Impacts On Project Surroundings(Ambient Air, 
Water Quality And Noise Levels) 
• Brief discussion on the basis for monitoring 
• Indicate type and location of environmental parameters to be monitored 
• Indicate the method of monitoring and equipment to be used 
• Provide monitoring results and an analysis of results in relation to baseline data and 
statutory requirements 
As a minimum the results should be presented as per the tables below. 
 
Air Quality Results 
Site No. Date of Testing Site Location 
Parameters (Government 
Standards) 
PM10 
µg/m3 
SO2 
µg/m3 
NO2 µg/m3 
      
      
      
 
Site No. Date of Testing Site Location 
Parameters (Monitoring Results) 
PM10 
µg/m3 
SO2 
µg/m3 
NO2 µg/m3 
      
      
      
Water Quality Results 
Site No. Date of Sampling Site Location 
Parameters (Government Standards) 
pH Conductivity 
µS/cm 
BOD 
mg/L 
TSS 
mg/L 
TN 
mg/L 
TP 
mg/L 
         
         
         
 
Site No. Date of Sampling Site Location 
Parameters (Monitoring Results) 
pH Conductivity 
µS/cm 
BOD 
mg/L 
TSS 
mg/L 
TN 
mg/L 
TP 
mg/L 
         
         
         
Noise Quality Results 
Site No. Date of Testing Site Location LAeq (dBA) (Government Standard) 
Day Time Night Time 
     
     
 
Site No. Date of Testing Site Location LAeq (dBA) (Monitoring Results) 
---PAGE BREAK---
208 Appendix 8 
 
 
Day Time Night Time 
     
     
 
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 9 209 
 
 
 
Appendix9  :PUBLIC CONSULTATION DETAILS 
MINUTES OF STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION MEETING 
 
Sub project: Providing UGSS to 4 added areas of Coimbatore Corporation in Zone V – 
Vadavalli &Veerakeralam[Wards 16 to 19]  
Venue and date : KC Wedding Hall at Kalveerampalayam, Vadavalli  
on 15.12.2020 
 
A. Brief of the consultation meeting  
Date  : 15.12.2020 
Venue : KC Wedding Hall at  Kalveerampalayam, Vadavalli 
Organizer : TWAD Board & Coimbatore Corporation 
Participants : Public of Vadavalli & Veerakeralam areas of Coimbatore   
                        Corporation 
 
B. Topics discussed during the meeting 
The Coimbatore Corporation City Engineer welcomed the gathering and the 
Commissioner, Coimbatore Corporation presided over the meeting at the venue of 
Public consultation meeting.  The Executive Engineer, TWAD Board, Project 
Formulation Division, Coimbatore explained about the UGSS Schem e details 
elaborately. About 104 persons of Vadavalli and Veerakeralam 
attended the meeting and raised their doubts regarding the UGSS, Lift Stations, 
Pumping Stations, STP site and disposal etc. and got them cleared by TWADB & 
Corporation officials. 
C. Reports / Materials disclosed to the participants 
Notices regarding the details of the UGSS scheme to be implemented were issued 
to the public. Maps of project areas and Sewer Network Plans were displayed to the 
public at the venue and were explained in detail. 
D. Suggestions and feedback of participants and response of project team 
The public of Vadavalli and Veerakeralam are very much interested and welcomed the  
UGSS to their area.  They assured to offer their full Co -operation while implementing 
the UGSS.   They insisted that the scheme should be implemented without much 
disturbance to the public movement.  Also they insisted to close the excavated 
trenches then and there immediately so as to avoid accidents.   The project team gave 
assurance to implement the suggestions promptly. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
210 Appendix 9 
 
 
 
Stakeholder Consultation MeetingPhotographs 
Vadavalli-Veerakeralam 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 9 211 
  
 
 
List of Participants: (insert scanned image of the attendance sheet) 
Tamil Nadu Urban Flagship Investment Program 
 
Stakeholder Consultation Workshop 
 
Sub project: Providing 4 added areas of Coimbatore Corporation - 
Vadavalli and Veerakeralam areas 
 
Date:15.12.2020      Venue:KC Wedding Hall at Kalveerampalayam, Vadavalli 
 
 
Organized by TWAD Board & Coimbatore Corporation (PIU) 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
212 Appendix 9 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 9 213 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
214 Appendix 9 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 9 215 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
216 Appendix 9 
 
 
 
 
  

---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 9 217 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
218 Appendix 9 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 9 219 
 
  

---PAGE BREAK---
220 Appendix 9 
 
 
MINUTES OF STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION MEETING 
 
Sub project : Providing UGSS to 4 added areas of Coimbatore   
Corporation in Zone VII – Kavundampalayam & Thudiyalur     
[ Wards 1(Pt), 2 to 9 & 43(Pt) ]   
Venue and date : SS Kamalesh Mahal, Thudiyalur on 15.12.2020 
A. Brief of the consultation meeting  
Date  : 15.12.2020 
Venue : SS Kamalesh Mahal, Thudiyalur 
Organizer : TWAD Board & Coimbatore Corporation 
Participants : Public of Kavundampalayam & Thudiyalur areas of Coimbatore   
                        Corporation 
 
B. Topics discussed during the meeting 
The Coimbatore Corporation City Engineer welcomed the gathering and the 
Commissioner, Coimbatore Corporation presided over the meeting at the venue of 
Public consultation meeting.  The Executive Engineer, TWAD Board, Project 
Formulation Division, Coimbatore explained about the UGSS Scheme details 
elaborately. About 85 persons of Kavundampalayam and Thudiyalur attended the 
meeting and raised their doubts regarding the UGSS, Lift Stations, Pumping Stations, 
STP site and disposal etc. and got them cleared by TWADB & Corporation officials. 
 
C. Reports / Materials disclosed to the participants 
Notices regarding the details of the UGSS scheme to be implemented were issued to 
the public. Maps of project areas and Sewer Network Plans were displayed to the 
public at the venue and were explained in detail. 
 
D. Suggestions and feedback of participants and response of project team 
The public of Kavundampalayam & Thudiyalur are very much interested and welcomed 
the  UGSS to their area.  They assured to offer their full Co -operation while 
implementing the UGSS.  They insisted that the scheme should be implemented 
without much disturbance to the public movement.  Also they insisted to close the 
excavated trenches then and there immediately so as to avoid accidents.   The project 
team gave assurance to implement the suggestions promptly. 
 
 
 
 
  
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 9 221 
 
Photographs: 
Kavundampalayam, Thudiyalur 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
222 Appendix 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 9 223 
 
 
 
 
List of Participants: (insert scanned image of the attendance sheet) 
Tamil Nadu Urban Flagship Investment Program 
 
Stakeholder Consultation Workshop 
 
Subproject: Providing UGSS to 4 added areas of Coimbatore Corporation  
                   in Zone VII –Kavundampalayam & Thudiyalur  [ Wards 1(Pt), 2 to 9 & 43(Pt)]  
 
Date:           15.12.2020 
 
Venue:       SS Kamalesh Mahal, Thudiyalur  
 
Organized by TWAD Board & Coimbatore Corporation  (PIU) 
 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
224 Appendix 9 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 9 225 
 
 
 
 
  

---PAGE BREAK---
226 Appendix 9 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 9 227 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
228 Appendix 9 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 9 229 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
230 Appendix 9 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 9 231 
 
 
 
 
 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
232 Appendix 10 
 
 
 
Appendix10  :COVID-19 HEALTH & SAFETY PLAN / SOP 
 
In response to COVID -19 outbreak, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA), Govt. of 
India, has defined the following Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and guidelines to ensure 
safety of construction site workers. SOP developed in line with the guidelines will be implemented 
during the execution of this project. 
General Guidelines – Applicable to All 
• All Protocol including Emergency Response will be laid out. Periodic tailgate sessions will 
be arranged to review site protocols in view of highly dynamic scenario ensuring social 
distancing norms. During these sessions, everyone including workers will be informed 
about the safety guidelines and important updates. Necessary arrangements for 
announcements shall be made at every site 
• Mandatory Thermal Scanning of everyone entering and exiting a construction site will be 
done for fever with thermal scanners. If anyone leaves and re -enters the site during the 
shift, re-screening of the individual will be done prior to re-entry into the work site. 
• Provision for hand wash & sanitizer (touch free recommended) will be made at all entry 
and exit points and common areas (including at distant locations like higher floors). 
Everyone will be required to wash & sanitize his/her hands befo re entering the site and 
using PPEs. Same procedure to be followed after removing PPEs and exiting the premise. 
Sufficient quantities of all the items should be available at the site. 
• Mandatory use of PPEs (face mask, hand gloves and other as applicable) b y everyone 
entering the premise. Re -usable PPEs should be thoroughly cleaned and should not be 
shared with others. 
• There will be strict ban on Gutka, Tambaku, Paan etc. on site and spitting shall be strictly 
prohibited. 
• Food should be consumed at designated areas only ensuring social distancing. Common 
sitting arrangements should be removed. Post lunch, waste should be disposed by 
individual in designated bins and area should remain clean. 
• Areas with a probability of bigger gathering, for eg. cleaning area,  toilets etc. should be 
identified and all arrangements should be made to ensure social distancing. 
• Entire construction site including site office, labour camp, canteens, pathways, toilets, 
entry / exit gates will be disinfected on daily basis. Housekeeping team should be provided 
with necessary PPEs. 
• There will be total Ban on non -essential visitors at sites (including from Head office staff, 
consultants etc.). 
• Hospital/clinics in the nearby area, which are authorized to treat COVID -19 patients, 
should be identified and list should be available at Site all the time 
• A doctor will be present periodically (at least once a week) at site on allotted time for any 
medical assistance. 
• Appropriate signage at construction site spelling out safety practices in the language which 
is understood by all. 
Guidelines for Workers 
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 10 233 
 
 
 
 
• On day 0, before resuming the work on site post lockdown period, mandatory medical 
check-up will be arranged for all workers. The workers coming from outside will be 
quarantined for a period of at least 15 days. Only medically fit workers will be deployed at 
site and medical assistance will be arranged for unfit workers. Medical checkup camp 
should be arranged every month. 
• The labours staying at site will not be allowed to go outside. All the essential items will be 
made available to labours at site only. If necessary, the workers can go out wearing PPEs, 
after informing supervisor. Similarly, no outside labour will be allowed at site without 
following proper procedure and instructions. 
• Start time on  site will be staggered to avoid congestion at the entry gates. Number of 
workers working at a particular time / place will be reduced by making arrangements for 
different shifts / areas. Accordingly, additional staff such as security guards, supervisors 
etc. will be deployed. 
• During attendance, training and other sessions, social distancing guidelines will be 
followed along with provision of no-touch attendance. 
• Workers to avoid contact with sick people and avoid going to site if they are feeling sick, 
have fever, cough or shortness of breath. In such case, supervisor should be informed 
immediately. Workers with such symptoms should not come to site and should be placed 
in isolation and medical assistance will be provided on immediate basis. 
• Workers should not shake hands when greeting others and while working on the site. 
• Mandatorily wear face masks while working on site. While not wearing masks, cover your 
mouth and nose with tissues if you cough/sneeze or do so in the crook of your arm at your 
elbow. 
• Avoid large gatherings or meetings of 10 people or more. Stay at least 6 feet away from 
others on job sites and in gatherings, meetings, and training sessions. Not more than 2/4 
persons (depending on size) will be allowed to travel in lifts or hoists. Use of staircase for 
climbing should be encouraged. 
• Workers should not share their belongings like food, water bottles, utensils, mobile phones 
etc. with others. The utensils should be washed properly post use at designated place. 
 
 
Guidelines for Material, Tools, Machinery, Vehicles etc. 
• At all point of time, easy access to parking should be ensured since public transit is limited. 
• All vehicles and machinery entering the premise should be disinfected by spray 
mandatorily. 
• All construction material arriving at site should be left idle for 3 days before use to ensure 
safe usage. 
• Non-touch waste bin with disposable garbage bag should be installed for waste collection 
at all common access areas. Proper disposal of garbage should be ensured. 
• Wipe down interiors and door handle of machines or construction vehicles, the handles of 
equipment and tools that are shared, with disinfectant prior to using. 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
234 Appendix 11 
 
 
 
Appendix11  :MECHANICAL ODOUR CONTROL DEVICES 
The conventional and engineered odour control unit that are commercially available are bio 
filter, scrubber, carbon filter, biotricking filter/bio scrubber. The details of odour control system 
 
Biofilter 
Bio-filter systems are designed as single or multistage units according to the actual requirement 
for instance with a preset humidifier, bio -or chemical scrubber. The bio filter system will give 
results in deodorization and purifies the exhaust air 
The plastic materials such as PE, PP, FRP, as well as coated steel, stainless steel, gratings made 
of recycle plastic or FRP will be used in the biofilter. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biofilter chart 
 
Wet Scrubber 
Gas scrubbing system absorb gaseous pollutants in liquids as water, sometimes with added 
chemical.Most contamination contain corrosive gases. The material used in the scrubber must be 
capable to endure permanent contact with high and low pH gases and scrubbing solutions. 
Material range: PE, PP, PVDF, PVC as well as FRP in a composite construction.Processes based 
on physical – chemical - absorption as well as biological or chemical oxidation are possible. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 – stage cross flow scrubber 
 
 
Bio - trickling filter  
Bio - trickling filter combines the advantage of bio filter and bio scrubber processes for purifying 
waste gas. The process is a combination of absorption and adsorption as well. Bio trickling filter 

---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 11 235 
 
 
 
 
are used for applications, whenever organic odours in combination with high H2S concentrations 
have to be elimination (e.g. composting, sewage treatment). 
 
Waste gas flow through a bio media trickling layer. An automatic controlled spraying nozzles 
system is installed above the bio media trickling layer in order to s pray water with nutrients and 
minerals water onto the trickling layer. The nutrient liquid ensures optimum biological process 
conditions for the surface  of the trickling layer’s carried material. The microorganisms convert the 
pollutants into CO2  and  water. The nutrient liquid re-enters the filter by spraying nozzles due to 
a circulation system. 
 
As packing for the trickling layer we use a special corrosion resistance synthetic material. This is 
extremely durable and convinces with an over 10 year perfor mance time. No high weighted 
packing material. Alternative the use of inherent material is possible. In comparison to bio 
scrubber there is no need of using oxidizing agents at all. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bio trickling filter 
 
Activated Carbon Filter 
Activated Carbon Filter are designed and used for the removal of vapors and odours which still 
may be present within the air or gas flow. The activated carbon filters adsorbs vapors and bind 
them to the surface of the activated carbon. The zero odour level is reached by contacting the air 
through a bed of activated carbon in an absorber. The carbon bed removal at the nominal working  
points, but also at unexpected or seasonal peak concentrations. The contract time between the 
air and the activated carbon should be between 2- 4 seconds. 
 

---PAGE BREAK---
236 Appendix 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carbon filter sketch 
 
 
  

---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 11 237 
 
 
 
 
1. Odour Control System Cost for Zone V 
Sl. 
No. Description of  work   Probable 
Quantity 
TNBP 
& Other 
Specification  
Unit  
Rate in INR 
Amount In 
Figures In Words 
  Tender Inviting Authority :- The Chief Engineer, TWAD Board, Coimbatore. 
  Note :- While quoting the rates, bidders have to taken into account the cost for taking insurance  as 
given in Section-IV : Contract data and the cost for complying with the Environmental Management 
Plan (EMP) as furnished in Technical specifications. 
  SCHEDULE - IV :Odour control system – Active Activated Carbon Filter for 6 Stations 
1 Manhole Type 
Passive Activated 
carbon filter for 
Lifting Station 5H at 
Podhigai Residency  
Suction well volume : 
3.35 m3  
Total quantity : 1No  
Air change rate : 12  
Air flow : 3.35m3x12 
ACR=41 m3/h  
    Special 
Specification  
        
  Pump speed shall 
be of 9600 rpm for 
high duty Manhole 
Type Passive 
Activated carbon 
filter - Model: AKFM-
60 Manhole type 
passive activated 
carbon filter vessel 
made of FRP, built in  
gratings, grilled 
openings in the side 
wall of the 
vessel,manhole cover 
on the top  of the 
vessel with Lifting 
handle for access.  
Type : AKFM -60  
Manufacturer : 
LikuTech  
Origin : India  
Maximum Filter 
vessel capacity : 60 
m3/h  
Weight of carbon (kg) 
: 30  
Vessel construction : 
FRP  
Grating & 
Accessories  
Documentation and 
Engineering  
Local Transportation 
1.00 No.   1 No. 
(Each) 
60000.00   60000.00 
---PAGE BREAK---
238 Appendix 11 
 
 
 
2 Manhole Type 
Passive Activated 
carbon filter for Lifting 
Station 5A at 
Kamachi  Nagar, 
Lifting station 5B at 
Onappalayam, Lifting 
station 5C at SMR 
Nagar, Lifting  station 
5D at Sri ram Nagar, 
Lifting station 5F at 
Maharani Avenue 
Phase 4 & Lifting 
station 5G at GKS 
avenueSuction well 
volume in m3: 12.87, 
12.57, 15.69, 14.13, 
9.44 & 8.17 Total 
quantity : 6 Nos Air 
change rate : 12 Max 
Air flow : 15.69 m3x12 
ACR= 188.28 m3/h 
6.00 Nos.   1 
No.(Each) 
77922.22   467533.33 
2 
(i) 
Manhole Type 
Passive Activated 
carbon filter - Model: 
AKFM-200 Manhole 
type passive 
activated carbon filter 
vessel made of FRP, 
built in  gratings, 
grilled openings in the 
side wall of the 
vessel,manhole cover 
on the top  of the 
vessel with Lifting 
handle for access.  
Type : AKFM -200  
Manufacturer : 
LikuTech  
Origin : India  
Maximum Filter 
vessel capacity : 200 
m3/h  
Weight of carbon (kg) 
: 40  
Vessel construction : 
FRP  
Grating & 
Accessories 
Documentation and 
Engineering  
Local Transportation 
              
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 11 239 
 
 
 
 
3 Activated Carbon 
Filter System for 
Lifting station 5E at 
Vadavalli Crossing 
Model: AKFR 1500 
Suction well volume : 
121.68 m3 Screen 
well volume : 42.86 
m3 Grit well volume : 
26.18 m3 Total Tank 
Volume : 190.72m3 
Air Change rate : 12 
Total airflow re quired 
: 2,289 m3/h H2S inlet 
concentration : 150 
ppm/12 ACR =12.5 
ppm avg 
1.00 No.   1 
No.(Each) 
1648000.00   1648000.00 
3 
(i) 
Pre-Filter  
Type: VF 2000  
Filter vessel of FRP 
material, filter insert 
made of PP mesh.  
Manufacturer: Liku 
Tech   
Origin: India  
Media: PP mesh  
Material casing: FRP 
              
---PAGE BREAK---
240 Appendix 11 
 
 
 
3(ii) Activated Carbon 
Filter Filter vessel 
made of FRP, round 
construction, 
manhole for 
maintenance and  
carbon filling in the 
top of the vessel, 
revision opening in 
the side wall of the  
vessel, waste air inlet 
and outlet made of 
FRP, FRP grating on 
support for the  
carbon bed, spray ing 
system for activated 
carbon regeneration 
including  stainless 
steel ball valve and 
PVC nozzle, 
connection for 
drainage including  
stainless steel ball 
valve, four sampling 
points with stainless 
steel ball valves,  
differential pressure 
switch Type: AK FR 
1500 Manufacturer: 
Liku Tech Origin: 
India Total Airflow 
(m³/h): 2289 Nominal 
carbon volume (m³): 
1.9 Weight of carbon 
(kg): 950 Superficial 
contact time (s): 3.1 
Diameter (mm): 1500 
Height (mm): 1700 
Vessel construction: 
FRP Filtering surface  
(m²): 1.77 Carbon bed 
depth (m): 1.07 
              
3(iii) Activated carbon 
(950 Kgs of 
Activated Carbon 
per system)  The 
activated carbon will 
be delivered in 25 kg 
or 500 kgs bags 
whichever fits your 
requirement and has 
to be filled into the 
filter vessel on site. 
Therefore the  bags 
are equipped with an 
outlet opening in the 
bottom of the bag.  
Type of carbon: 
Catalytic carbon, re -
generable by water  
Moisture, as packed: 
< 5 % Apparent 
              
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 11 241 
 
 
 
 
density (kg/m³): 500 
+/- 30 Pellet diameter 
(mm): 4 Hardness 
no.: > 97 
3 
(iv) 
Fan (1 Duty fan per 
system)  
Type: Radial fan  
Manufacturer: Nadi 
Airtechnics limited or 
equivalent  Origin: 
India  
Capacity (m³/h): 2289  
Static pressure (Pa): 
2500  
Material housing: SS 
316  
Material impeller: 
SS316  
Motor power rating 
(kW): app.2.2  
Motor power supply. 
415 V, 50 Hz  
Drive: Direct driven 
              
3(v) Interconnecting 
ductwork 
Interconnecting 
ductwork between 
pre-filter, fan and 
carbon filter. 
Manufacturer: Liku 
Tech Origin: India 
Material: FRP 
Diameter (mm): 
Suitable for AKFR 
1500 Including: 1 x 
Volume control 
damper 
              
3 
(vi) 
Switch cabinet  
Switch cabinet for the 
above mentioned 
odour control system. 
Mounted at the  filter 
vessel.  
Including:  
1 x Main switch  
1 x Soft Starter for fan 
2.2 kW  
1 x On / Off switch for 
fan  
1 x Status lights for 
fan 
              
3 
(vii) 
Documentation and 
engineering  
∙ Basic Eng.  
∙ Drawings  
∙ P+ID  
∙ Functional 
description  
∙ List of Equipment  
∙ Operating and 
maintenance 
manuals 
              
---PAGE BREAK---
242 Appendix 11 
 
 
 
4 Activated Carbon 
Filter System for 
ZONE 5 -MPS AT 
STP SITE 
CHOKKAMPUDUR 
Suction well volume : 
356.08 m3 Screen 
well volume : 99 m3 
Grit well volume : 
121.88 m3 Total 
Volume : 576.96 
m3Air Change rate : 
12 Total airflow 
required : 6,924 m3/h 
H2S inlet  
concentration : 150 
ppm/12 ACR =12.5 
ppm avg 
1.00 No.   1 
No.(Each) 
5926265.00   5926265.00 
4 
(i) 
Pre-Filter  
Type: VF 4000  
Manufacturer: Liku 
Tech   
Origin: India  
Media: PP mesh  
Casing material: FRP 
              
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 11 243 
 
 
 
 
4(ii) Activated Carbon 
Filter Filter vessel of 
FRP material with 
stainless steel 
reinforcement, 
angular  construction, 
manholes for 
maintenance and 
carbon filling in the 
top of the  vessel, 
revision openings on 
one side of the 
vessel, waste air inlet 
and outlet  of  FRP, 
plastic grating, 
spraying system for 
activated carbon 
regeneration with SS  
316 ball valve, 
connection for 
drainage including SS 
316 ball valve, four 
sampling  points with 
SS 316 ball valves, 
differential pressure 
switch. Type: AKFE 
4000 Manufacturer: 
Liku Tech  Origin: 
India Total Airflow 
(m³/hr): 6924 Nominal 
carbon volume (m³): 6 
Weight of carbon (kg): 
3000 Superficial 
contact time (s): 3.1 
Length (mm): app. 
4000 Height (mm): 
app. 2100 Width 
(mm): app. 2150 
Vessel material: FRP 
Filtering surface (m²): 
app.8 Bed depth (m): 
0.75 
              
4(iii) Activated carbon 
(3000 KGS PER 
VESSEL) The 
activated carbon will 
be delivered in 25 kg 
or 500 kgs bags 
whichever fits  your 
requirement and has 
to be filled into the 
filter vessel on site. 
Therefore the  bags 
are equipped with an 
outlet opening in the 
bottom of the bag.  
Type of carbon: 
Catalytic carbon, re -
generable by   water  
Moisture, as packed: 
< 5 % Apparent 
density (kg/m³): 500 
              
---PAGE BREAK---
244 Appendix 11 
 
 
 
+/- 30 Pellet diameter 
(mm): 4 Hardness 
no.: > 97 
4 
(iv) 
Fan  
Type: Radial fan  
Manufacturer: Nadi 
Airtechnics limited or 
equivalent Origin: 
India  
Capacity (m³/hr): 692  
Static pressure (Pa): 
2100  
Material housing: 
Stainless Steel 316   
Material impeller: 
Stainless Steel 316   
Motor speed at 50 Hz 
(rpm): app. 1400  
Motor power rating  
(kW): app.7.5  
Power supply: 415 V, 
60 Hz  
Drive: Direct driven 
              
4(v) Interconnecting 
ductwork 
Interconnecting 
ductwork between 
pre-filter, fan and 
carbon filter. 
Manufacturer: Liku 
Tech Origin: India 
Material: FRP 
Diameter (mm): 
Suitable for AKFE 
4000 Including: 1 x 
Volume control 
damper 
              
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 11 245 
 
 
 
 
4 
(vi) 
Switch Cabinet  
Switch cabinet for the 
above mentioned 
odour control system. 
Mounted at the  filter 
vessel.  
Including:  
1 x Main switch  
1 x Soft Starter for fan 
7.5 kW  
1 x On / Off switch for 
fan  
1 x Status lights for 
fan 
              
4 
(vii) 
Documentation and 
engineering  
∙ Basic eng.  
∙ Drawings  
∙ P+ID  
∙ Functional 
description  
∙ List of Equipment  
∙ Operating and 
maintenance manual 
              
5 Local 
Transportation  
Odour control system 
for all the 9 stations in 
Zone V is packed at 
Chennai factory and 
delivered till 
Coimbatore site  
1.00 Lot   1 Lot. 
(Each 
Lot) 
236275.41   236275.41 
6 Additional Option               
  H2S Monitor for 
Active ACF system 
(1 unit for system 
outlet) H2S monitor 
for the measurement 
of the H2S 
concentration at the 
system.  outlet. 
Monitoring for: H2S 
Output Signal: 4…20 
mA Measuring range: 
0…20 ppm(outlet) 
Unit Price for single 
H2S Monito r: 
2,50,000.00 INR 
Note: If required we 
can supply Handheld 
monitor instead of 
H2S monitor as  
economical option 
2.00 Unit   1 
Lot.(Each 
Lot) 
250000.00   500000.00 
  Exclusions ∙ Mobile 
crane for erection 
during installation. ∙ 
External ducting from 
the source point to the 
Inlet of our OCS  ∙ Off-
loading and 
positioning the goods 
              
---PAGE BREAK---
246 Appendix 11 
 
 
 
to the location ∙ Any 
civil work like 
excavation, 
backfilling, 
concreting. ∙ 
Condensate water 
drain from fans, pre -
filters and carbon 
filters. ∙ Power supply 
cable between your 
MCC and panel board 
for OCS. ∙ Control 
cable if any from our 
panel to your DCS / 
SCADA etc., ∙ Any 
necessary GATE 
passes / Entry permit 
∙ Any HSE safety 
induction for our team 
∙ No TPI or Inspection 
cost involved ∙ Any 
Installation or 
commissioning works 
∙ Spare motors can be 
provided based on 
Client’s request at 
additional  cost ∙ 
Supervision of 
Installation 
&Commissioning will 
be extra at actua 
  Total for Schedule - 
IV 
(Carried over to 
Final Abstract) 
            
8838073.74 
 
2. Odour Control System Cost for Zone VII 
Zone - VII SCH IV- Supply of Odour control system – Active Activated Carbon Filter for 3 Stations   
Sl.  
No.  Description of  works 
Probable 
quantity in  
figures 
TNBP No. 
other 
specificatio
n 
Unit in  
Rate in 
Amount  
in figures  
Figures Word
s 
1 Manhole Type Passive 
Activated carbon filter for 
Lift station 1 at Siva 
castle –ZVIIB, Lift  station 
2 at Lakshmi garden, Lift 
station 3 at Easawaran 
Garden –Z1  
Suction well volume in 
m3:  8.86, 7.13 & 9.67  
Total quantity : 3 Nos  
Air change rate : 12  
Max Air flow : 15.69 
m3x12 ACR= 188.28 
m3/h 
3.0
0 
Nos
. 
  1 No. 
(Each) 
77922.22   233766.67 
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 11 247 
 
 
 
 
1 
(i) 
Manhole Type Passive 
Activated carbon filter - 
Model: AKFM -200 
Manhole type passive 
activated carbon filter 
vessel made of FRP, built 
in  gratings, grilled 
openings in the side wall 
of the vessel,manhole 
cover on the top  of the 
vessel with Lifting handle 
for access.  
Type : AKFM -200  
Manufacturer : LikuTech  
Origin : India  
Maximum Filter vessel 
capacity : 200 m3/h  
Weight of carbon (kg) : 
40  
Vessel construction : 
FRP  
Grating & Accessories  
Documentation and 
Engineering  
Local Transportation 
              
2 Activated Carbon Filter 
System for Zone 7A 
Cheran Colony Model: 
AKFE 3000  Suction well 
volume : 232.38 m3 
Screen well volume : 
89.70 m3 Grit well 
volume : 52.44 m3 Total 
Tank Volume : 374.52 
m3 Air Change rate : 12 
Total airflow required : 
4,495 m3/h H2S inlet 
concentration : 150 
ppm/12 ACR =12.5 ppm 
avg 
1.0
0 
No.   1 
No.(Each
) 
4058165.00   4058165.00 
2 
(i) 
Pre-Filter  
Type: Liku Tech VF 3000  
Filter vessel of FRP 
material, filter insert 
made of PP mesh.  
Manufacturer: Liku Tech   
Origin: India  
Media: PP mesh  
Material casing: FRP 
              
2(ii) Activated Carbon Filter 
Filter vessel of FRP 
material with stainless 
steel reinforcement, 
angular  construction, 
manholes for 
maintenance and carbon 
filling in the top of the  
vessel, revision openings 
on one side of the vessel, 
waste air inlet and outlet 
              
---PAGE BREAK---
248 Appendix 11 
 
 
 
of  FRP , plastic gratin g, 
spraying system for 
activated carbon 
regeneration with SS  
316 ball valve, 
connection for drainage 
including SS 316 ball 
valve, four sampling  
points with SS 316 ball 
valves, differential 
pressure switch Type: 
AKFE 3000 
Manufacturer: Liku Tech 
Origin: India Total Airflow 
(m³/hr): 4495 Nominal 
carbon volume (m³): 4 
Weight of carbon (kg): 
2000  Superficial contact 
time (s): 3 -5 s Length 
(mm): app. 3100 Height 
(mm): app. 2100 Width 
(mm): app. 2150 Vessel 
material: FRP Filtering 
surface (m²): app . 6 Bed 
depth (m): 0.67 
2 
(iii) 
Activated carbon (2000 
Kg) 
The activated carbon will 
be delivered in 25 kg or 
500 kgs bags whichever 
fits  your requirement and 
has to be filled into the 
filter vessel on site. 
Therefore the  bags are 
equipped with an outlet 
opening in the bottom of 
the bag.  Type of carbon: 
Catalytic carbon, re - 
generable by   water   
Moisture, as packed: < 5 
%  
Apparent density (kg/m³): 
500 +/ - 30  
Pellet diameter (mm): 4  
Hardness no.: > 97 
              
2(iv) Fan Type: Radial fan 
Manufacturer: Nadi 
Airtechnics limited or  
equivalent  Origin: India 
Capacity (m³/hr): 4495 
Static pressure (Pa): 
2100 Material housing: 
Stainless Steel 316  
Material impeller: 
Stainless Steel 316  
Motor speed at 50 Hz 
(rpm): app. 1400 Motor 
power r ating (kW): app. 
5.5 Power supply: 415 V, 
60 Hz Drive: Direct drive 
              
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 11 249 
 
 
 
 
2 
(v) 
Interconnecting 
ductwork  
Interconnecting ductwork 
between pre -filter, fan 
and carbon filter. 
Manufacturer: Liku Tech  
Origin: India  
Material: FRP  
Diameter (mm): Suitable 
for AKFE 3000  
Including: 1 x Volume 
control damper 
              
2 
(vi) 
Switch Cabinet  
Switch cabinet for the 
above mentioned odour 
control system. Mounted 
at the  filter vessel.  
Including:  
1 x Main switch  
1 x Soft Starter for fan 5.5 
kW  
1 x On / Off switch for fan  
1 x Status lights for fan 
              
2 
(vii) 
Documentation and 
engineering  
∙ Basic eng.  
∙ Drawings  
∙ P+ID  
∙ Functional description  
∙ List of Equipment  
∙ Operating and 
maintenance manuals 
              
3 Activated Carbon Filter 
System for MPS 
KOUNDAMAPALAYAM 
GRIT WELL Model : 
AKFE 4000 Grit well 
volume : 667 m3 Air 
Change rate : 12 Total 
airflow required : 8004 
m3/h H2S inlet 
concentration : 150 
ppm/12 ACR =12.5 ppm 
avg 
1.0
0 
No.   1 
No.(Each
) 
6686575.00   6686575.00 
3 
(i) 
Pre-Filter  
Type: VF 4000  
Manufacturer: Liku Tech   
Origin: India  
Media: PP mesh  
Casing material: FRP 
              
---PAGE BREAK---
250 Appendix 11 
 
 
 
3(ii) Activated Carbon Filter 
Filter vessel of FRP 
material with stainless 
steel reinforcement, 
angular  construction, 
manholes for 
maintenance and carbon 
filling in the top of the  
vessel, revision openings 
on one side of the vessel, 
waste air inlet and outlet 
of  FRP, plastic grating , 
spraying system for 
activated carbon 
regeneration with SS  
316 ball valve, 
connection for drainage 
including SS 316 ball 
valve, four sampling  
points with SS 316 ball 
valves, differential 
pressure switch. Type: 
AKFE 4000 
Manufacturer: Liku Tech  
Origin: India Total Airflow 
(m³/hr): 8004 Nominal 
carbon volume (m³): 7.2 
Weight of carbon (kg): 
3600 Superficial contact 
time (s): 3.1 Length 
(mm): app. 4000 Height 
(mm): app. 2100 Width 
(mm): app. 2150 Vessel 
material: FRP Filtering 
surface (m²): app .8 Bed 
depth (m): 0.9 
              
3 
(iii) 
Activated carbon (3600 
KGS PER VESSEL)  
The activated carbon will 
be delivered in 25 kg or 
500 kgs bags whichever 
fits  your requirement and 
has to be filled into the 
filter vessel on site. 
Therefore the  bags are 
equipped with an outlet 
opening in the bottom of 
the bag.  Type of carbon: 
Catalytic carbon, re -
generable by   water   
Moisture, as packed: < 5 
%  
Apparent density (kg/m³): 
500 +/ - 30  
Pellet diameter (mm): 4  
Hardness no.: > 97 
              
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 11 251 
 
 
 
 
4(iv) Fan Type: Radial fan 
Manufacturer: Nadi 
Airtechnics limited or 
equivalent Origin: India 
Capacity (m³/hr): 8004 
Static pressure (Pa): 
2100 Material housing: 
Stainless Steel 316  
Material impeller: 
Stainless Steel 316  
Motor speed at 50 Hz 
(rpm): app. 1400 Motor 
power rati ng (kW): 
app.11 Power supply: 
415 V, 60 Hz Drive: 
Direct driven 
              
3 
(v) 
Interconnecting 
ductwork  
Interconnecting ductwork 
between pre -filter, fan 
and carbon filter. 
Manufacturer: Liku Tech  
Origin: India  
Material: FRP  
Diameter (mm): Suitable 
for AKFE 4000  
Including: 1 x Volume 
control damper 
              
3 
(vi) 
Switch Cabinet  
Switch cabinet for the 
above mentioned odour 
control system. Mounted 
at the  filter vessel.  
Including:  
1 x Main switch  
1 x Soft Starter for fan 11 
kW  
1 x On / Off switch for fan  
1 x Status lights for fan 
              
3 
(vii) Documentation and 
engineering  
∙ Basic eng.  
∙ Drawings  
∙ P&ID  
∙ Project Management  
∙ Procurement  
∙ Functional description  
∙ Operating and 
maintenance manuals  
∙ Spare parts list 
              
---PAGE BREAK---
252 Appendix 11 
 
 
 
4 Activated Carbon Filter 
System for MPS 
KOUNDAMAPALAYAM 
SCREEN WELL Model : 
AKFE 6000 Grit well 
volume : 981 m3 Air 
Change rate : 12 Total 
airflow required : 11,772 
m3/h H2S inlet 
concentration : 150 
ppm/12 ACR =12.5 ppm 
avg 
1.0
0 
No.   1 
No.(Each
) 
9685063.00   9685063.00 
4 
(i) 
Pre-Filter  
Type: VF 6000  
Manufacturer: Liku Tech   
Origin: India  
Media: PP mesh  
Casing material: FRP 
              
4 
(ii) 
Activated Carbon Filter  
Filter vessel of FRP 
material, angular 
construction, manholes 
for maintenance  and 
carbon filling in the top of 
the vessel, revision 
openings on one side of 
the  vessel, waste air inlet 
and outlet of FRP, plastic 
grating, spraying system 
for activated carb on 
regeneration with SS 316 
ball valve, connection for 
drainage  including SS 
316 ball valve, four 
sampling points with SS 
316 ball valves,  
differential pressure 
switch.  
Type: AKFE 6000  
Manufacturer: Liku Tech   
Origin: India  
Total Airflow (m³/hr): 
11772  
Nominal carbon volume 
(m³): 10.2  
Weight of carbon (kg): 
5100  
Superficial contact time 
(s): 3.1  
Length (mm): app. 6100  
Height (mm): app. 2100  
Width (mm): app. 2150  
Vessel material: FRP  
Filtering surface (m²): 
app.12  
Bed depth (m): 0.85 
              
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 11 253 
 
 
 
 
4(iii) Activated carbon (5100 
KGS PER VESSEL) The 
activated carbon will be 
delivered in 25 kg or 500 
kgs bags whichever fits  
your requirement and 
has to be filled into the 
filter vessel on site. 
Therefore the  bags are 
equipped with an outlet 
opening in the bottom of 
the bag.  Type of carbon: 
Catalytic carbon, re -
generable by   water  
Moisture, as packed: < 5 
% Apparent density 
(kg/m³): 500 +/- 30 Pellet 
diameter (mm): 4 
Hardness no.: > 97 
              
4 
(iv) 
Fan  
Type: Radial fan  
Manufacturer: Nadi 
Airtechnics limited or 
equivalent Origin: India  
Capacity (m³/hr): 11772  
Static pressure (Pa): 
2500  
Material housing: 
Stainless Steel 316   
Material impeller: 
Stainless Steel 316   
Motor speed at 50 Hz 
(rpm): app. 1400  
Motor power rating (kW): 
app.15  
Power supply: 415 V, 60 
Hz  
Drive: Direct driven 
              
4 
(v) 
Interconnecting 
ductwork  
Interconnecting ductwork 
between pre -filter, fan 
and carbon filter. 
Manufacturer: Liku Tech  
Origin: India  
Material: FRP  
Diameter (mm): Suitable 
for AKFE 6000  
Including: 1 x Volume 
control damper 
              
4(vi) Switch Cabinet Switch 
cabinet for the above 
mentioned odour control 
system. Mounted at the  
filter vessel. Including: 1 
x Main switch 1 x Soft 
Starter for fan 15 kW 1 x 
On / Off switch for fan 1 x 
Status lights for fan 
              
---PAGE BREAK---
254 Appendix 11 
 
 
 
4 
(vii) Documentation and 
engineering  
∙ Basic eng.  
∙ Drawings  
∙ P&ID  
∙ Project Management  
∙ Procurement  
∙ Functional description  
∙ Operating and 
maintenance manuals  
∙ Spare parts list 
              
5 Activated Carbon Filter 
System for MPS 
KOUNDAMAPALYAM 
SUCTION WELL  
Model : AKFE 8000  
Suction well volume : 
2426 m3  
Air Change rate : 12  
Total airflow required : 
29,112 m3/h  
H2S inlet concentration : 
150 ppm/12 ACR =12.5 
ppm avg 
1.0
0 
No.   1 No. 
(Each) 
22669090.0
0 
  22669090.0
0 
5 
(i) 
Pre-Filter  
Type: VF 8000  
Manufacturer: Liku Tech   
Origin: India  
Media: PP mesh  
Casing material: FRP  
Including differential 
pressure gauge 
              
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 11 255 
 
 
 
 
5(ii) Activated Carbon Filter 
Filter vessel of FRP 
material, angular 
construction, manholes 
for maintenance  and 
carbon filling in the top of 
the vessel, revision 
openings on one side of 
the  vessel, waste air inlet 
and outlet of FRP, plastic 
grating, spraying system 
for  activated car bon 
regeneration with SS 316 
ball valve, connection for 
drainage  including SS 
316 ball valve, four 
sampling points with SS 
316 ball valves and  
differential pressure 
switch. Type: AKFE 
8000Manufacturer: Liku 
Tech  Origin: India Total 
Airflow (m³/hr): 14,556 
Nominal carbon volume 
(m³): 12.8 Weight of 
carbon (kg): 6400 
Superficial contact time 
(s): 3.1 Length (mm): 
app. 8000 Height (mm): 
app. 2100 Width (mm): 
app. 2150 Vessel 
material: FRP Filtering 
surface (m²): app. 16 Bed 
depth (m): 0.8 
              
5 
(iii) 
Activated carbon 12800 
Kg (6400 KG PER 
VESSEL)  
The activated carbon will 
be delivered in 500 kg big 
bags and has to be filled 
into  the filter vessel on 
site. Therefore the big 
bags are equipped with 
an outlet  opening in the 
bottom of the bag.   
Type of carbon: Catalytic 
carbon, regenerable  by 
water  
Moisture, as packed: < 5 
%  
Apparent density (kg/m³): 
500 +/ - 30  
Pellet diameter (mm): 4  
Hardness no.: > 97 
              
---PAGE BREAK---
256 Appendix 11 
 
 
 
5(iv) Fan (1 Duty fan only) 
Type: Radial fan 
Manufacturer: Nadi 
Airtechnics limited or 
equivalent  Origin: India 
Capacity (m³/hr): 29,112 
Static pressure (Pa): 
2500 Material housing: 
Stainless Steel 316  
Material impeller: 
Stainless Steel 316  
Motor speed at 50 Hz 
(rpm): app. 1400 Motor 
power r ating (kW): app. 
30 Power supply: 415 V, 
50 Hz Drive: Direct driven 
              
5 
(v) 
Interconnecting 
ductwork   
Interconnecting ductwork 
between pre -filters, fan 
and carbon filters. 
Manufacturer: Liku Tech  
Origin: India  
Material: FRP  
Diameter (mm): 1000 / 
710  
Including:  
1 x Y -Piece  
2 x Volume control 
damper at the inlet of the 
carbon filter vessels  
2 x Reducer   
2 x Transition piec 
              
5 
(vi) 
Switch cabinet  
Switch cabinet for the 
above mentioned odour 
control system. Mounted 
at the  filter vessel.  
Including:  
1 x Main switch  
1 x Soft Starter for fan 30 
kW  
1 x On / Off switch for fan  
1 x Status lights for fan 
              
5(vii
) 
Documentation and 
engineering ∙ Basic eng. 
∙ Drawings ∙ P&ID ∙ 
Project Management ∙ 
Procurement ∙ Functional 
description ∙ Operating 
and maintenance 
manuals ∙ Spare parts list 
              
6 Local Transportation  
Odour control system for 
all the 9 stations in Zone 
V is packed at Chennai 
factory and delivered till 
Coimbatore site  
1.0
0 
Lot   1 Lot. 
(Each 
Lot) 
1263724.59   1263724.59 
7 Additional Option               
---PAGE BREAK---
Appendix 11 257 
 
 
 
 
  H2S Monitor for Active 
ACF system (1 unit for 
system outlet)  
H2S monitor for the 
measurement of the H2S 
concentration at the 
system.  outlet.  
Monitoring for: H2S  
Output Signal: 4…20 mA  
Measuring range: 0…20 
ppm(outlet)  
 
Note: If required we can 
supply Handheld monitor 
instead of H2S monitor 
as  economical option 
2.0
0 
Unit   1 Lot. 
(Each 
Lot) 
250000.00   500000.00 
  Exclusions ∙ Mobile 
crane for erection during 
installation. ∙ External 
ducting from the source 
point to the Inlet of our 
OCS  ∙ Off -loading and 
positioning the goods to 
the location ∙ Any civil 
work like excavation, 
backfilling, concreting. ∙ 
Condensate water drain 
from fans, pre -filters and 
carbon filters. ∙ P ower 
supply cable between 
your MCC and panel 
board for OCS. ∙ Control 
cable if any from our 
panel to your DCS / 
SCADA etc., ∙ Any 
necessary GATE passes 
/ Entry permit ∙ Any HSE 
safety induction for our 
team ∙ No TPI or 
Inspection cost involved ∙ 
Any I nstallation or 
commissioning works ∙ 
Spare motors can be 
provided based on 
Client’s request at 
additional  cost ∙ 
Supervision of 
Installation 
&Commissioning will be 
extra at actua 
              
  Zone VII - SCH IV - 
Total 
            45096384.2
6 
 
 
---PAGE BREAK---
